  
 11 the shells were flying thick and I stopped a piece in right chest, walked back to dressing Station, about 4 miles through the rain and mud and spent the night there. 
 Tuesday 7th November 1916  Left in an open char-a-banc and went down to 5th A.M.C.  Pouring with rain and a rotten ride over rough roads.  Dressed again here, and then in a motor ambulance to No. 37 C.C.S. where we spent the night. 
 Wednesday 8th November 1916  Caught train at end day and reached Rouen at about midnight, and am now between clean sheets.  Also wounded same night Corpe Lawrence, Lanc Cpl. W.  Lawrence and I are together so far. 
 Saturday 11th November 1916  Went under X Ray today. Concert to-night. 
 Sunday 12th November 1916  Supposed to be leaving for Blighty.  Left 4/30 and came on board Hospital Ship Western Australian in port that night. 
 Monday 13th November 1916  Left 5.30 this morning, found Mr. Shane and Joe Hill on board.  Heavy fog came up and we had to put back - very crook. 
 Tuesday 14th November 1916  Started again this morning at 9 and reached Southampton tonight - anchored for the night. 
 Wednesday 15th November 1916  Pulled into wharf at 9 a.m. and finally left in the train at about 1, and reached Bristol about 3 p.m.  Had a great reception from the people.  Went to Southmead Hospital. 
 Thursday 16 November 1916  X Ray today. 
 Friday 17th November 1916  Snowing to-night.  First of the Year. 
 [Handwritten note] Died 26th Nov. 16 at Southmead Hospital Bristol after operation.  Shrapnel in Lung - hemorage setting in after removal.  W.E.R. 
 [Transcriber's notes: Abbeville is misspelt as Abbyville Amiens - Armiens Arneke - Arncke Audruicq - Audrick Beauval - Beanwal, Beaval Birmingham - Bermingham Boeseghem - Boeseghen Boulogne - Bolougne Boulogne - Bolougne Contalmaison - Contalinaison Ebblinghem - Eblingham Erquinghem - Erquingham Flixecourt - Blixicourt Gaba Tepe - Gaba Tebe Hazebrouck - Harebrouck Ismailia - Ismalia, Esmalia la Boisselle - la Boiselle La Vicogne - La Vicogane Mediterranean - Meditteranean Monterause - Montereau Morbecque - Morebecque Mudros - Murdois Picquigny - Picquigney Picquigny - Picquigney Picquigny - Requigney Pont Remy - Pontrenny Poperinge - Poperinghe, Paperingha, Paperingah Reningelst - Reninghalst Rubempre - Rubenprt Strazeele - Strabeele Tel-el-Kebir - Tel-el Keber Warloy-Baillon - WalRoy Baillon, Walhoy Baillon Wizernes - Wizarnes H.M.S. Mers - H.M.S. Mars A.M.C. - Army Medical Corps B.E.F. - British Expeditionary Force (Belgium, France, England) C.C.S. - Casualty Clearing Station D.A.A.G. - Deputy Assistant Adjutant General F.G.C.M. - Field General Court Marshal] 
 [Transcribed by Judy Gimbert for the State Library of New South Wales] 
 