a6922059.html
115
                                          11th INSTALMENT.
6th December, 1916.     Since last writing I have set off on a trip
down to the Riviera to do some more convalescing.  During the winter
months the South is much used as a convalescent district, principally
because the Army consider that they will get their Officers back to
work quicker this way than by leaving them in the fog and damp of the
North.  It certainly suits Australians better as the climate is more
like their own.  The journey from the North is a long one, but a
very interesting and pretty one.  In pre war days the express train
from Calais and Boulogne to Paris was onsidered the fastest in the
World but now alas, the track has become much worn through heavy war
traffic and the rollling stock has not received the attention which at
one time was bestowed upon it, with the result that fast travelling is
out of the question and a journey involves a considerable amount of
shake and jolt.
     The former rather long-winded notice on the Railway
Stations warning soldiers against discussing war matters in the hearing
of strangers, has given place to the following:
     "There once was an owl who lived in an oak,
     "He saw quite a lot but seldom spoke,
     "And the less he spoke the more he heard,
     "Soldiers should imitate this wise old bird."
Rather a good effort I thought especially as it is well displayed in
large black lettering on white boards easily visible from the trains.
     Abbeville is the first place of any size reached between
Boulogne and Paris and it is here that so many of the Somme wounded
were collected during the first couple of months of that offensive.
Here as we pass in the train we can see the Hospital barges, ten or a
dozen in number, moored to the river bank sinisterly awaiting the next
push.  The swollen state of the rivers and canals would, in any case
prevent the running of the barges during the winter months.  Barge No.
191 moored there amongst the others brings back to me my trip down from
