a6922060.html
117
(2).
Corbie to Abbeville some four months back.  The trees on either bank
of the Somme, then so dense and brilliantly green, were the only things
I could see through the open roof of the barge.  Now they are but an
avenue of stocks through which the river runs.  Although unlike the
poplar in many respects, I fancy they must be one of that family: for
the purpose of bordering a river I have never seen a more suitable tree
so tall and straight do they grow.
     Amiens is the next town of any size andnits tall
Cathedral visible for miles around seems like an old friend.  I well
remember how on our treck from Amiens to Albert - we marched for three
days before we lost sight of that steeple and then almost immediately
we picked up the partially ruined spier at Albert.  This latter land-
mark surmounted by the partially tumbled figure peeping over the hill
near Becourt Wood was visible to us in the trenches (i.e. on the
Eastern side of Albert) if not at Pozieres, certainly as far as
Contalmaison.  Why it was not pulled down I can't understand, for it
must have been an excellent direction mark for the German gunners in
their search for our battery positions round about Albert.  Sentiment
(one of the Allies worst enemies) was probably the reason.
     From Amiens another couple of hours brings us to Paris
where we arrive at seven o'clock in the evening.  The train for the
South leaves from the other side of Paris at 8.15 p.m. and the time
occupied in crossing Paris by car from the Gare de Nord to the Gare de
Lyon is about 20 minutes.  It is apparently the intention of the
British Army that Paris shall remain a sealed book to its officers.
From the time we arrived at the Gare de Nord until the train left for
the South a Major from the R.T.O.'s office never had us out of his
sight.  Whilst we had dinner, he sat on the bottom step of the
Restaurante and I'm sure he didn't breathe freely until the Riviera
train started.  One cannot see much of Paris in an hour and a quarter
