a6922051.html
99
(4).
press and elsewhere, generally in more or less harrowing style.
Artists have painted it and poets have immortalized it.  And yet
there is nothing spectacular about it, just a little drama which is
being enacted every morning month in and month out, Sundays included.
Perhaps our women have grown braver or perhaps the more emotionally
inclined have been presuaded to say their good byes at home, the
early hour being a helpful excuse for insisting on the latter course.
Be that as it may, the seeker after pathos would find no gratification
in the scene as it takes place nowadays.  Officers returning from
leave are not a very cheery lot and what conversation they do carry on
consists mainly of grunts.  The man in the corner who took the tender
farewell of the pretty girl in the blue hat on the platform, sits
vacantly staring out of thewindow and inwardly cursing the war.  Next
to him is a chap who has caught this train four times during the past
two years.  He reads one newspaper after another and finally bundles
the whole lot up and throws them out of the window through which he
continues to gaze with one of Bainsfeather's "fed up" expressions.  In
the other corner an unshaven subaltern smokes cigarette after cigarette
[Note handwritten in left hand margin: 
Poor old C (vide supra)]
in an effort to overcome the "nasty brown taste" which his last night
of leave has left him.  The next compartment contains a party of
nurses who are returning from their well earned leave after a
strenuous five months devoted to looking after the wounded from the
"1916 push".  They chatter as is their way, and appear quite happy.
The Tommies who fill up most of the train are like a lot of schoolboys
returning after the holidays.  They are not the same jovial spirits
who arrived at Victoria a week or so again.  Banter which then would
have been met by counter banter, now threatens to lead to blows.
However the feeling will work off as the day xxxx wears on.
     The run to Folkestone is a very pretty one passing
