About 9 Mac D.Alldiss and a party of machine gunners arrived and helped to swell the singing. Later on, more machine gunners came in and there was "standing room only" in our billet, so we drew the meeting to a close by singing "Farewell" One of the mob gunners gave us a sword dance the music being supplied by the crowd humming the Cock-o-the North" in imitation of bag pipes. We all clubbed together and bought a few bottles of wine and after drinking this we went to bunk, tired and happy.
Friday 20th
Reveille at 5.30 morning cold, wet, and damp, and dreary We tramped down, through the mud to our cookhouse for a drink of tea and some bacon. Then we rolled our blankets and "fell in" about 9 and marched about 2  miles to where French motor buses were waiting to take us out to the trenches. They are fine big cars, each one carrying 30 men. Goodness knows how many cars there were, but they stretched out along the roads as far as the eye could see. The drivers wore big fur coats, and they needed ?em too, as it was very cold. We passed through a number of pretty little villages until we got to Amiens. This is a fine big city, but we only passed through the outskirts. They have electric cars there, and as soon as our crowd caught sight of ?em they cheered like mad. From Amiens we went to Dernancourt where we billeted for the night. On our way we passed motor cars and waggons of all kinds, thousands and thousands of ?em I didn't think there were so many in the world. We billeted at different farms in the village. A party of ten of us stayed at one place the smallest and best of the lot and we had plenty of straw to sleep on. The people are very cranky and don't seem to have any time for soldiers. There were a few small shops around, but it was impossible to purchase anything, as they were all sold out before we arrived. Stan Wright asked the woman at the farm to make him a mess tin full of coffee. She did so, but most begrudgingly, without milk or sugar, and wanted to charge him a franc but Stan politely told her to keep it.