Mighty cavalcade of men, horses, and guns. The early morning sun waxes strong and bright, and distant objects can be distinctly seen. The roads are but a moving mass; the intervening country is streaked with forward-going khaki lines. Away on the western horizon appear more horses. These are the cavalry, some at the walk, some at the gallop, going forward to exploit the successes of the infantry. Hour after hour the transport pours onward, and only towards evening is there any relaxation.
Simultaneously in the opposite direction, come streams of German prisoners, collected from all parts of the battlefield, batches of as many as 150 may be seen with an escort of three or four armed Australians. They carry theselves with a tired air, and walk wearily, without keeping step. On the whole a fairly well-nourished and well-clad crew. The sight of guns moving up so rapidly impressed them. "This is well organised," said one to me. "You took us by surprise this morning."
Coming apart from the others was a dapper artillery colonel and his adjutant, with clean clothes and boots free of trench mud. A digger by the wayside called out, "Good morning!" "Good morning!" he replied, with faultless accent, and a smile that suggested that he was by no means depressed at being taken a prisoner.
Relentless Pursuit.
A day's halt at our captured line to re-organise, and then we are again hurried forward over 10 kilometres of captured territory to roll the Hun incubus still further back. The attacking Australians move up in broad daylight against their objective, and the Hun infantry comes out to give themselves up. His resistance was slight. This was the attack on Framerville, which was captured by the 5th Australian Brigade on the afternoon of Saturday, August 10, against low-flying enemy aeroplanes, and what artillery the enemy had organised in the interval. The following night, battalions of the same brigade attacked and captured the village of Rainecourt; about 300 prisoners, with field and machine guns being captured in both actions.
Of the work of the Australian corps in this great forward thrust it is impossible to speak too highly. One needs to live and fight among the troops really to appreciate the splendid and unflagging spirit shown by all ranks. To carry to a successful conclusion three attacks within the short space of four days is no mean achievement. And remember that these Australians were not fresh troops, but many units had been in the forward line system for two months without a spell. Yet, after two successful actions, worn with their exertions and their tramp across 10 kilometres of country under a blazing August sun, they were, in the third attack, taking prisoners fresh German reserve troops, who, the day before, had been resting at Peronne.
The butterfly has wings of gold
The firefly wings of flame,
The flea ? it has no wings at all
But it gets there just the same.
"Gallus tuus ego, et igius via"
Translation ? Cock your eye and fire away.
Puzzle
Tree parts of a cross and a circle complete,
Two semicircles with a perpendicular meet.
A right angle triangle that stands on two feet
Two semi-circles and a circle complete.
Answer:-
Tobacco.