
[The following letter is of 8 pages and is transcribed here as one page with breaks between each page. The pages were copied in the incorrect sequence.]11th August 1917
My Dear Mother,
I have to report, as usual, that - beyond a considerable increase of toil etc - everything is quite all right and the troops are steady! Perhaps it is the lack of disquieting or exciting news from Down Under that keeps them so; Perhaps it is that they find only one course open to them i.e. to carry on & grin. Barring an occasional note from Wallington or from Harold H. at the Troubridge O. Cadet School, I never have any mail these days. In fact it has become quite a usual thing to get none and the boys reckon that the day that sees me get an 'Aussi' mail will be worth recording in their diaries of Event! Is it possible that Boche has got a personal & partic. spite on 'yours etc'?
Yesterday we had a quite passable march - for a wonder it omitted to rain all thro the day & le soleil came out at frequent intervals. I was riding from start to finish so had an opportunity of appreciating the local color without having to put up with any interruptions from the feet.
The first ten miles of the road led out to the level country beyond the near hills, by hedged and tree-lined tracks thro the farms. The trees are - almost - at their best, being full of nuts of various sorts and values; chief among them are the walnut, almond, hazel & beech. Green walnuts are some - they are sour, acid & bitter in one bite: they burn your mouth like a chunk of biblical fire and brimstone: they stain your face, hands & tunic a fine brown-yellow-green color & are enabled to do so by their power to make you spit & splutter as continuously and savagely as a Vickers heavy. I did get a few ripe walnuts - but they don't come anywhere near the home grown article. As a matter of fact Aussi & American walnuts are the best article for this market & command higher prices than the English goods. Same thing applies to apples - although I know you wont believe me. At one little place, where we stopped for dinner, the people  & kids came out carrying baskets of small green apples, hard, woody & bitter, but just beginning to develop the natural
sourness of the junior pomme. It seemed they meant us to eat them! They were eating them with apparent enjoyment .... but there are some things that even soldiers cant tackle. How these people manage to eat them & live is a mystery to us. One thing is certain - they must be constituted differently to any Aussis I ever heard of.
By this village runs what they call a brook, rill or rivulet. On reaching the bottom of the valley this noble stream becomes at once a feature of the landscape. It is a clear, swift running affair, about three feet wide & six inches deep. It's channel is twice that deep but no wider. The banks are built up  of wads, tussocks of grass and water-cress. The bottom is chiefly paved with old tins etc. Nevertheless there are fish in it - about as large as the never to be forgotten gudgeon - and in its neighbour hood spotted frogs and monstrous, warty toads are almost as plentiful as the ear-wigs that haunt our dixies. I should like to make a collection of these toads & frogs to send out to Aussi. They represent about the most intelligent form of
life to be found in the island.
Leaving the valley - after following the stream for quite four miles in the course of which it grows neither in volume nor impressiveness - we cross by a stone arch bridge & begin to wind up towards a stony down. Here the hedges are the most luxuriant feature to be seen - they are, each of them, wider than the road proper and must waste the deuce of a lot of growing land. Also they are full of fruit - blackberries just ripening, a kind of bramble similar to the blackberry in size but built more like a raspberry, sloes by the million and occasional red currants. The queer thing about all the berries seems to be their lack of sugar. Is the war responsible for even the fruit going short, or is it just the lack of sunshine. Anyhow not even the ripest blackberries can be called sweet & as for the other berries .... they'd poison an Aussi goat. Their use lies in the fine ornament they are for otherwise commonplace roads.
Leaving the beaten track we took to what is called a 'green-path.' It's called so because
no other description fits it better. There's usually no sort of path or track on these 'green-paths.' They are just un-ploughed, un fenced strips zig-zagging over the farms & showing plainly for miles against the yellow & red crop or brown village - a river of vivid green. Very pretty. Also beastly rough under their deceitful cloak of green grass, clover & weeds. We followed our 'green path' for about three miles, on one side of us a 'heavy' crop of barley about ten inches high, on to'ther side long stretches of ploughed & several wheat fields in which the scarlet poppies were sprinkled like millions of little dancing flames.
Leaving the path on top of the ridge we passed thro a wood held by several army corps  of pampered rabbits (apparently kept there on the border of the farms in order to give the farmer no chance of forgetting his inferiority)
and leaving the wood, came out on a wide, waste area of brown & white - splotched with shell holes, tattered trees and wire; this was the ground on which,  recently, I watched the shrap.& high exs raining. Following the hogback of this ridge we came to yet another green path and at the end of this, saw a long, narrow wood stretching away for miles in a semi circle. Our 'green path' led us into it and, there, became a sort of avenue or rather a tunnel, roofed in to a height of about ten feet so densely that   for  in three miles we only twice saw the sunlight penetrating breaks. Several of these wood 'tunnels' exist in this part of the country, and they almost have a tropical appearance while you are in them. Very pleasant after a hard road, but tricky for mounted men & limbers....Especially limbers - ye gods! You
should have heard some of the remarks! Leaving the wood we skirted round "Inky's" park & got back on the main road to quarters. You may wonder who "Inky" is. Well, the name is practically its own explanation....being the term of endearment (?) bestowed on one Stevens, maker of inks, by the respectful population that knows so well his laboratories & his fame. Incidentally he owns the ground on which we get wet feet & do our daily fall-in.
In the past few weeks I have amused myself when cash permitted, sending post cards. Altogether I have managed to get off about five dozen on the chance of you getting some at least. I should have sent some other little souvenirs before this but somehow we're always broke - what little cash we get goes on tucker & necessities & there's none too great a surplus left over for an
occasional plug of 'Battleaxe' or some Woodbines. One of the 4th/9th has drawn on Aussi for over 100 since Dec. and yet he can never show anything for it. An evening in any old village of one has half a dozen pals can run to a fortnights pay without being exactly a lively affair; and how some of the lads manage to booze etc on their pay is a mystery - unless poker game has something to do with it!
I mention this so that you will understand that, if I have not sent any souvenirs of the island, it is not because I don't want to. Long before you get this I will be quit of it for a while and the general verdict is "sooner the better." We none of us want to go back to Aussi under the title of 16th Lead Swingers!  The pack is off to feed & if I don't hurry there'll be none left, so will wind up with heaps of love to all, most of all to yourself Mother.
from Harry