 a6491146.html 
  [Newspaper Clipping]  
 DIARY OF THE WAR. 
 _________________ 
  [LH corner torn/missing]  
 [?]   - Great battle in France (begun on [March?] 21) continued. Enemy attacks during the night on Noyon-Chaulnes front and endeavour to break through at junction of French and British Armies.  During the day violent attacks on whole front, south of Somme ;  Noyon and Roye evacuated and British forced back on both banks of river near Bray. 
 Turkish force, 22 miles north-west of Hit, broken up and retreat cut off by cavalry ;  5,000 prisoners with guns, etc., captured. 
 March 27.-Enemy attacks in mass delivered from south of Rosieres to Ablainzeville (about 30 miles).  Albert taken by enemy and determined attacks made north and south of the town, and in the Ancre-Somme angle.  West of Roye the French were forced back beyond Montdidier after fighting of " unheard-of-desperation." 
 British destroyer mined and lost with 41 lives. 
 Advance of British forces east of Jordan, con-verging on Amman. 
 March 28.-During night severe fighting astride the Somme and in Ancre valley north of Albert, and during day on whole British line from Rosieres to north-east of Arras (55 miles).  Enemy attack on Arras and Vimy repulsed. Bitter fighting south of Somme.  French counter-attacks east and west of Lassigny ;  enemy driven northwards on 7-mile front. 
 Turkish forces on Euphrates pursued beyond Ana, 83 miles above Hit. 
 British armed steamer  Tithonous  sunk by torpedo ;  4 lives lost. 
 March 29.-Heavy enemy attacks south of Somme ;  British forced back to west of Hamel - Marcelave - Demuin - Mezieres.  Fu-tile attempt to break through by enemy on French front from Moreuil to Lassigny (25 miles). 
 Paris shelled by long-range gun ;  church struck during Tenebrae service. and 75 killed and 90 injured. 
 Colonial mounted troops at Hedjaz railway about Amman ;  several miles of track, etc., destroyed. 
 March 30.-Unsuccessful attacks by enemy in Somme-Ancre angle.  South of Somme down to the Avre attacks and counter-attacks ;  Moreuil and Demuin lost and re-taken.  Attack on French from Moreuil to beyond Lassigny (about 37 miles) pressed with great weight despite slaughter exceeding anything previously known ; several villages gained by enemy west of the Avre and about Montdidier. 
  [New column]  
 March 31.-South of Somme enemy attempts to advance along the Avre and Luce valleys unsuccessful. 
 Recapture by French of some villages lost on March 30.  Footing gained by enemy in Hangard-en-Santerre. 
 During 11 days of fighting, attacks by R.F.C. with bombs and machine guns on enemy troops, transport, etc. ;  in air fighting during the great battle, 350 enemy machines destroyed and 189 brought down ;  137 machines lost by British. 
 April 1.-Comparative quiet on battle front. Enemy casualties estimated at 300,000 ;  gain of devastated territory about 1,100 square miles, some 250 square miles of it west of the line of 1914-16 ;  75,000 prisoners, 1,100 guns, 100 tanks, etc., also claimed by enemy. 
 April 2.-Local fighting on West front. 
 General Sir Henry Rawlinson commands Fifth British Army in succession to General Gough, recalled. 
 April 3.-Local encounters in France ;  Ayette retaken by British. 
 Rheims municipality to remove to Paris. 
 April 4.-Battle on West front renewed by heavy attacks on Franco-British lines between Somme and Avre Rivers ;  British pressed back about Hamel and the French in the Luce-Avre angle. 
 British destroyer sunk by collision ;  all hands lost. 
 April 5.-Enemy attacks continued about Moreuil throughout the night ;  ground gained at Castel.  At dawn heavy attacks on British front from Bucquoy to the Somme (about 20 miles). 
 General Van Deventer's dispatch on East African operations to December 1917 issued. 
 April 6.-Local encounters on British front. On French front sharp fighting in Lassigny and Noyon region. 
 April 7.-Local fights on West front.  With-drawal by French in angle west of Chauny, south of the Oise, to straighten line.  Rheims violently bombarded during night. 
 April 8.-Violent bombardment of French and British fronts and gas shells poured into British lines from La Bassee Canal to Armentieres. 
 April 9.-Enemy attack on British and Portu-guese on 11-mile front from La Bassee Canal to Armentieres ;  Portuguese in centre forced back about 3 miles to River Lawe ;  the British conforming on north flank along the Lys River, held crossings from Estaires 
