a6491147.html
[continuation of newspaper article]
Bac St. Maur ;  on south flank Givenchy lost but retaken with 750 German prisoners. Neuve Chapelle, Richebourg-St. Vaast, and Laventie taken by enemy, who claimed 6,000 prisoners, 100 guns, etc.
Further advance in Palestine west of the Tul Keram-Ramleh railway.
April 10.-Extension of battle of Armentieres north of the town to Hollebeke (25 miles) involving Messines battleground.  After crossing the Lawe at Lestrem, enemy thrown back again.  Armentieres evacuated and British pressed back on line of Messines Ridge and Ploegsteert.  Fierce local actions on French sectors below Somme.  In air fighting 35 German machines brought down and 4 British lost.
April 11.-Fierce battle round Armentieres.  Enemy assaults in Lawe River region repulsed.  North of Estaires and at Ploeg-steert British forced back towards Bailleul.  Enemy attack on Messines Ridge repulsed.
Ostend bombarded from the sea.
Turkish attacks on Palestine positions repulsed.
American ship Lake Moor torpedoed and sunk by submarine.
April 12.-Enemy attacks round Armentieres pressed during night and Merville captured.  During day British pressed back on Bailleul.  Sixty-two German machines and 3 balloons brought down by R.A.F. and 12 British machines lost. Fifty-six tons of bombs dropped on enemy formations, etc.
Attack on England by 4 Zeppelins, one over Midlands, one near North-West Coast, and two near East Coast ;  6 killed, 15 injured.
Paris bombed by Gothas ; 26 killed, 72 injured.
Report of Justice Younger's Committee on German cruelties to prisoners published.
April 13.-Enemy who had penetrated Neuve Eglise in night ejected by counter-attack.  Enemy attacks north of La Bassee Canal, round Merville and Bailleul, repulsed.  Attack west of Wulverghem beaten off, and in evening fourth attack on Neuve Eglise and one on Festubert repulsed.
April 14.-Failure of four enemy assaults on Neuve Eglise in night, but during day British troops compelled to withdraw.  Further attacks on Bailleul repulsed.  Seven attacks round Merville and line which had bent restored.
General Foch, Commander-in-Chief of Allied armies in France.
April 15.-Enemy attack south-east of Bailleul and adjacent hills carried, British falling back to new positions north of Bailleul and Wulverghem ;  occupation of the towns by the enemy.
Ten German trawlers sunk by British in [last line of column text torn/missing]
 
[New column. Right hand corner torn/missing]
April 16.-Capture by ene [text missing]
schaete, Spanbrockmol [text missing]
Messines Ridge.  In eveni [text missing]
Wytschaete retaken by c [text missing]
British forward positions on [text missing] 
Ridge east of Ypres withdrawn to [text missing]
in consequence of enemy progres [text missing]
Messines region.
April 17.-Intense enemy bombardment of whole Lys battle front and infantry attacks from Mieppe Wood to Wytschaete ;  Meteren and Wytschaete again in enemy hands.
April 18.-Heavy bombardment of Lys battle front from Givenchy to St. Venant. Assaults on Givenchy positions and south of Kemmel repulsed.  Advance by French astride the Avre on 4-mile front for about a mile, taking 650 prisoners.
April 19.-Local encounters on Lys front after severe defeat of enemy at Givenchy and ten days of continuous fighting.
April 20.-Minor enterprises on British front. American units in action in attack east of St. Mihiel.
April 21.-Local fighting about Robecq.
Shelling of Paris by long-range gun con-tinued ;  total number of victims to date 118 killed and 236 injured.
Rittmeister Freiherr von Richthofen, famous German airman, killed.
April 22.-Raiding and reconnaissance encoun-ters on West front.
Guatemala at war with Central Powers.
April 22-23.-Naval raid by British on Ostend and Zeebrugge ;  two obsolete British cruisers sunk at entrance of Ostend harbour, and [one?text missing] more at entrance of Bruges Canal. [App ? text missing] to Zeebrugge mole blown up by old [B? text missing] submarine ;  storming and demolition parties landed and enemy destroyer and submarine depots and large seaplane base damaged.
April 23.-British positions improved by local operations, and some 200 German prisoners taken in Flanders.
Heavy bombardment on Somme and [A ? text missing] fronts.
April 24.-Attack in weight and aided by tanks renewed by enemy on British front south of the Somme and adjoining sectors of French front, and capture by him of village of Villers-Bretonneaux, east of Amiens ;  repulse elsewhere with loss.
