added to the food supply. "it's a good Idea." and one that is going to cause a great deal of fun and also a very great deal of annoyance, if put into Practise. the man who is responsible for the suggestion evidently has a very poor knowledge of Pigs, or else just wish's to see how many fools will try the game. he suggests that the London County Council, allow suburbanites to keep a pig and the Local Sanitary Insp. go round and see that piggys quarters are kept clean. now just fancy a Business man rising early, to feed Piggy, clean his pen, then get ready for work at the office. of course feed for the animal is easily procured.  any one who has kept pigs knows that, scraps from the house, that would otherwise be wasted are good, then some Turnips, they are fairly cheap. A few other items, and then if you are lucky you may grow a Pig worth 3&#163; . for not less than 5&#163; when all expenses are counted up. then who's going to kill poor Piggy. I saw a cartoon today a City Gentleman taking his pig to market, a string on it's leg and he is evidently not enjoying himself. I am not an authority on Pig keeping but if they start keeping them in their gardens, I wont to be here to see. "I'm afraid the man with Pig Ideas thought too soon. forgive the un. If they would close all the hotels and use all the whisky for making explosives, they would win the war. Perhaps they will do it someday, the war threatens to be a huge success, but you will read all about it, in the daily rags. they allways print anything good, but they reserve the bad stuff for future use. we have not read very much lately about our air supremacy. why, because it has very nearly slipped from our grasp. The Huns had to get busy and do something so they built a new machine and now our chaps have to look out, or they meet trouble. everyday we lose a machine and nearly always the two men, pilot observer no doubt we will get the upper hand again before long. and no doubt this year a very big attempt will be made to smash Fritz on this front. At present the British troops are holding a very large portion of the line and a lot of the French are back resting I expect that means putting in crops etc. behind the lines.