seen Harry yet. I may see him before I leave for France, and I may not. He arrived at Salisbury about the 28th of Dec. but he will have told you all his experiences. So far I have only received one letter from him, I expect there is another somewhere that I will receive someday. The weather is just the same I wouldnt mind living in England .. during the summer for about two summers, that is providing I had sufficient money to go touring but England in the winter, is a dreary hole. Overhead a grey dull Sky, not a ray of sunshine for days, then the stories we read of a snow clad world etc. are all imagination, it is only in parts, and we can do that much out in Australia, true it will start and snow at night in the morning you look out, and everywhere it is white, and very pretty, but by 10 am it has nearly all gone as silently as it came and it leaves a nice slushy mud to help make life miserable. then when the sun does eventually get out, it has no warmth in it but it does not shine long. This war will perhaps do the British people some good, it will teach the classes that their very existence depends almost entirely on the masses, up to the present they 
the upper ten have done nothing in fact many of them have tried to keep the working man down. they did not want him to rise, so they would not try to help him, instead they, or many of them threw all sorts of obstacles in his way. "The wealthy tradesman who had made his money, managed to get a little somehow and then looked down on the good old Aristocrat who had just gone on the same for years living, or starving" as the case might be on his fine old estates that had been handed down generation after generation tho. gentleman in turn looked with scorn on the Titled Tradesman "because he was jealous I expect" - and so it goes on they are too narrow minded and too snobbish to realise that, a Tradesman can be a gentleman also, and they teach their children the same even today. the men who had the money and did not have to work, there was no need. They sent their sons to college and paid for an expensive education for them, but how much did a lot of them learn. it was too much they were good at Footer or Rowing Cricket etc. but everywhere else a number of them were failures the ones who came out as successes, were those who had to Battle for their living either, with their brains or hands so they had to work. now the war is making a lot of them think, but it is from amongst the ones who had to work that some of their best men are coming. the others are not up to much they are rather good at doing nothing except talk at the Club. Things were rather pleasant here for Xmas. a certain amount of leave was granted but the men were not allowed to travell on the Railway, the authorities had some fool Idea in their heads, soldiers must not travell, presumably because the train service was altered and there was a shortage in Rolling stock, yet, every paper advertised the Xmas Holiday Resorts, and Holiday makers seemed to be enjoying themselves as usual "but soldiers must stay in Camp for Xmas. one man told me that, leave was only granted Xmas week in extreme cases such as sickness at home and then two days only. I am speaking of men who have relatives on this side of the world. But the Issuing of orders forbidding troops to travell on the trains did not deter a few of them from going. I do not blame them. I did once. But now Good luck to the man who beats them, and gets away. I had my Photo taken sometime ago here in Wareham but I do not like it much however everyone seems to consider that it is a first class likeness, perhaps that is why I do not care for it I am sending a couple out, also some that I had taken when at Wallington. I am also sending Madge one. She is as you know the W.A. Lassie I have not heard from her for some time. When you see Aunt Nellie again will you please thank her for her Card allso Ivy for her letter I will write as soon as possible, but writing in these huts is far from pleasant as the Tables are nearly allways in use. men playing cards etc. and they make writing quite a task. When up at Wallington I went out for several walks sometimes with Harold. sometimes with Mrs. Horton and once with Elsie once with Edgar. But I did not go up to Lunnon to see the sights, Lunnon in winter does not appeal to me any it's a dreary sort of place, especially when it rains. I mean, you know what I mean so I wont explain. I was advised once to see the Tower and Bridge, but I have heard so much about them that they have lost interest for me no doubt I would enjoy seeing them but somehow when I go to any of those sort of places by myself I always start wishing that someone else was there with me and they I begin to lose Interest in them.