Try to get back to their units, he agreed that very likely there was something in that, I know that men did try to get away and others simply went for a holiday. when I left the rations were so low that we had to buy at the canteens and I am not a large eater at any time, but I very seldom left the mess room feeling that I had eaten a decent meal for anyone who had to work. I was really glad to get away after 10 days of it. They put up placards in the huts "Dont waste food" its wanted at home." There was seldom any to waste, except at odd times "one item quoted is Liver and bacon." I have seen it thrown out for the simple reason it was putrid before it was cooked, and a dog would have passed it by. The bacon was allways the same, hardly enough to taste, so next time Senator G. wishes to find out anything, the best plan for him to follow, will be the one I have suggested, he will never get at the truth through hd. qrs. They are a great lot of shufflers than even Little Willie H. can pretend to be. Saw Little Willie some time ago dont know why they call him little he made some of our Stalwart Anzacs look small when he walked along the line when they read that he had been up the line, and was nearly killed. there was much laughter, and they gave their opinion of the warmth of Willies feet freely, but next issue of the mail announced the death of the Officer who was with him at the time, and they were silent. Do you think that they will ever give him credit for the good that he has done, "they have been ready enough to see all his mistakes, I've no doubt" myself that when little Willie hands in his cheques. They will suddenly see his good points, as they did with old E. W. OSullivan, but such is human nature. Wm Hughes seems to be affording the caricurists some scope to exercise their talents like George Reid Joey Chamberlain, he is a good subject, with a good policy to pull to pieces, but that is neither here nor there. I have seen little in the home papers that have drifted this way, of Davey Hall, what is he at now. still helping the wheat grower, along the road, or is he still getting in the way of the food profiteer, had there been a few Davey Halls in the power over the other side of the duck Pond, I guess things might have been considerably better for all as much as they do.