France 9.5.17.
My Dear Mother
I am once more away from the line, this time I stopped a small piece of shell with my leg. whether they will send me over to Blighty I cannot say but it is highly probably that I will have to remain this side of the channel this time, still I am hoping that they send me across for I want to go and have another holiday in Surrey. I have received several letters from Mrs Horton, and, in the last she told me that your letters for me had arrived. I have not received them yet, but they will come along safely some time, I also had a letter from Harry he was still at the School and seemed to be having a fairly good time, was not certain how much 
longer he would be there, but thought that he might be sent across to join his Unit. Your letter telling me about willie, was the last that I received I did not have an opportunity to find out anything at all, as we were very busy. We have been ever since Easter Monday, that was the day they picked for us to start, and then we had to keep at it. On Easter Monday we had The Wurlimburgers to hunt out of a village but last oponents were the Prussian Guards, it was all bomb fighting and they fought well, they did not like leaving their trench, at all, but we wanted it so they had to. after we had taken a part of it we were relieved and went back a couple of miles to have a rest We were only back a few hours then 

had to go up to another part to relieve one of our Battns, I was there about 10 hours before I got "hit" but did not stop 10 minutes after. I left quickly as fritz was just opening up with his Artillery. I had a lively trip down from the line, but got through safely and here I am I was not quite so unlucky this time as last. Our R.Q.M. had his head quarters not very far from the Casualty Clearing Station so I walked across and saw him and got Permission to get anything that I wanted out of my pack. So I secured my razor and a couple of other small articles which I wished to save. This year the Spring is very late here very few of the trees have any leaves on them yet, and the hawthorn hedges
are just beginning to look green but I have not seen any in bloom. In some of the ruined villages that we passed through some of the garden flowers were out in bloom. Snowdrops and Lilys of the Valley Daffodils, some of them rather fine Cowslips and Primroses and I found one little bunch of Violets out in bloom. out in the fields there are daisies but not nearly so many as we saw in flanders last year There is little new of any Interest that I can tell you now, but later on I may have more. at present I am in bed but I wont be for very long. Lately the weather has been clear and sunny and we have had several days of real summer weather the first I have experienced since leaving Egypt. Now I must close with heaps of Love to all especially yourself and Bett. from your Loving Son Chas.