Latest letters from Home were dated 27th May. some of the earlier letters are to come along yet, they are wandering round, or perhaps waiting somewhere for someone to send them on Say while I think of it one of the boys cut a small piece out of the paper here the other day Re War Minister Pearce's Inquiries .. Re food issued to soldiers at Perham. I have the clipping somewhere, and will enclose it if I can find it again. on the whole it is quite true, but they forgot to mention fish, we sometimes got fish for Breakfast, generally Bloaters, we were allowed one each per man and I must say that for my own part I was allways glad when I saw them on the Table for we got a better Breakfast the other items were there allright, but in quantities, that bordered on a true starvation allowance, and good as the living may seem to Pearce and the rest, I have seen soldiers go and ask to be sent across to the line, because they would receive better treatment with their units, and they were not heroes that were allways thirsting for gore. Had Senator P. been dumped suddenly in the middle of any camp and given a week on the same fare as the men I'll wager that he would have refrained from laying himself open to ridicule per medium of the papers even though the Tale which he so readily swallowed, may have seemed dinkum, when any of these man wish to find out things of that sort why dont they get some one that they can rely on to tell the Truth, as it is not as it seems. I might write and say they issue us with dates, so they do, but in very small quantities, and they cut out the jam when they issue dates, so we lose one luxury to get another. They issue Bacca, Cigs, and matches once a week and on that day cut out the Jam Butter, but we dont mind over here. Over in Blighty its different, if they get news that any big head is in the vicinity, or likely to be, look out, there'll be a decent dinner, so eat as much of it as possible for there'll be little to eat next day that is the way of the military over there. Speaking to any officer here one day we got onto camp conditions in Blighty, and I told him straight that they were rotten. after awhile he admitted that he knew they were not good, but said he could not say why so I asked him if he did not think that it might be done with a purpose, "IE" Sickening the Troops that were there so that they would