France 20.9.1917
My Dear Mother Your letter dated 8th August, arrived here a couple of days ago. There were also a couple of other letters, one from Mrs Barker, and one from Min, also a short note from Harry, he was feeling better. In your letter you named two places, where New South men took part in the fighting on the 10th 11th of April. we were at the first named H. on Easter Monday morning, we commenced just about four oclock after waiting nearly all night, at the starting point, we were up near the last named R. on the fourth and 6th of May it was then that I got hit, the papers will have told you more than I would be able to, so I will not say more here. Had I known of Lybs approaching marriage earlier I would have asked you to get her some little present for me, also something for each of the other girls, I would have sent something from this side, but have not the ready money. I am not short so far as pocket money is concerned. 28/- per fortnight does me nicely but then there are generally one or two who want little loans. and whenever we get a chance, we buy extras, such as bread. Tinned fruit Tomato's, fruit of other sorts, pears apples mostly. They are rather expensive though, so the money soon dwindles, soon things may be a little better I hope so. Jim Elder is here in this camp I see him pretty well every day I hunted him up one day, some time ago, I had been looking for Eric, and finding that he was over in Blighty I looked Jim up. he had a letter from Eric, not long ago which he shewed me. E was then at Weymouth, and did not say whether he was likely to come across soon. he has never told Jim, whether he was hit badly or not. Ken is a Sergeant, somewhere over here. I have never met him yet. I fancy that he has a pretty good job and it does not take him into much danger but I may be wrong. In your Letter you spoke of Henrietta Lowe being at Ourimbah, was it L.W. or the Brother who was so ill, I fancy the latter, for I think that someone told me in a letter that F.W. had come over to this side, and had been wounded, I may have made a mistake, Things are very unsettled with us just at present.