I sat in the trenches at Broodesinde Ridge and listened to our S.O.S. Barrage, our Trial Barrage, and The Barrage before the Hopover. as well as several minor stunts I began to understand a little about Artillery fire that day, and I dont like it, I can assure you, its right enough, when you know the shells are not for you, but you also know, when it starts that you have not long to wait for your share, and friend fritz can be very spiteful when he likes .. At Hermies I saw a plane brought down, one of ours, just after it landed, "a broken heap of material," fritz opened up on it with a 5.9. but try as he would, he could not hit it, so he raked the ground around it, with H.E. Shrapnell, what his idea was I do not know. The old tanks too, that he has managed to put out of action, get quite a lot of attention from him, but though his artillerymen do some very fine grouping practices, when shooting at these stationary targets. I have never seen a direct hit, it is when they select a certain area, and commence to sow it broadcast that they do the damage One day in Octr Last I watched their heavy shells tearing the place to pieces in amongst some of our batteries and all the time the gunners were busy moving the guns twice I saw heaps of ammunition set on fire beside the guns, but the guns were not hit, just behind them as a small truck loaded with timber, and after awhile a lucky shell caught it, fair centre, There was a sudden and swift, depreciation in the value of that truck Timber doubtless, had the gunners, been able to observe the effect of that particular shot, they would have boasted about their fine shooting, but still they do shoot well, though our guns give them no peace, and generally make things so hot for them that they shut up. I believe that for awhile there was a very strong Idea amongst the Army leaders on our side that the Hun would make a push somewhere on this particular sector, and fritzie, I believe dropped pamphlets telling the civilians that he intended dining in one of the big town not far from here, on Xmas day, but no push came off, so the rumour may have been true and it may not, one thing, there was a very nice reception waiting had he come .. You spoke in your letter of the fight which I presume Alf Phillips got his ticket, Gaza, well the papers at first over here, claimed all sorts of things for our side, then later came the report of the commission which followed. The business was rotten enough, but still someone must make mistakes, if the whole truth were just laid out before the public, each time the public would learn some strange things, still sooner or later, the truth must come out, the Messopotamia commission showed everyone that much. If I could tell you the exact location of our present quarters, I would, but as you know, it is not safe to do so, such is the care with which the military guard against any news that might be of use to Fritzie, escaping .. Yet, the civilians in nearly any district that we have yet been in can tell us days before, if we are moving, and where we are going, "funny isn't it? we must not say it in a letter home.