  
  the men shall give of the best to their duty, & gain the best of all possible chances of rest. They are divided into three watches, Red, White & Blue. One stands alert to the call, and there is standing by, dozing, another is resting properly in hammocks. I do the rounds every night. Last night I walked up & down with Lewis on the top of A Turret, which is in front of the bridge. He was married the day before we left, so, naturally we talked in love laden whispers of the treasures we have left behind. Then I went aft to X Turret where Eumann & I, standing on the top, looked over the moonlit sea & weighed the chances of our returning home again. Then to P then to Q, inside all of them for a word with each & every man. The four inch guns crews have perhaps the post of honour & danger, but they are asleep besides their guns, & so I must come away. Coasting steamers pass us from time to time & provide us with  a little excitement. They don't realise  perhaps that a four inch gun is trained upon them ready to send a shell across their bows, if they are not prompt in their explanations. The Warilda passed us yesterday & gave us a rousing cheer. A little while before a tug towing the disabled Carrabill after answering our signals. Semaphored "What is the matter?" I guess they had a shock when flags were run up to say "Hostilities commenced". To the numerous passengers on the Warilda, we must indeed have looked a fearsome & stirring sight. They cheered us wildly, but not a sign except fluttering flags from us, rushing majestically on at 15 knots & leaving a trail of dense smoke that darkened the sky for miles. The ship has never been so happy as she is now, there are no petty offences, & each one of our 960 men is keen on    duty  doing his duty. What a difference to the ship is made by the whisper of war. A fair amount of valuable property has already gone into the ditch & if we meet the enemy, as is hoped, on Wednesday Aug 12 other things up to the value of thousands of pounds will be thrown overboard to minimise the danger from splinters and fire. The bridge is absolutely transformed, all superfluous matter has been 
