in behaviour fighting working abilities. It is a name second to none on the peninsular. A few of the reinforcements went into A Squadron. The remainder went to make up old B, C being the same the 12th LH that are at present B, make up D squadron attached. I cannot help thinking that we are in for another fight before we leave the peninsular.
Tuesday 26th Fine day again treat to get a little sunshine after recent weather. The Turks have lately obtained a lot more ammunition they peppered the road at Anzac yesterday. Reinforcements went out sapping first time last night all have blistered hands this morning.
Wednesday 27th Col Merrington our Chaplain left at 6 am this morning for England, then he returns to Aust. A furious bombardment on the Turks part with big shells occurred on the Lonesome Pine Plateau, a few bursting over Courtneys Quinns Post. Then our batteries answered and it terminated in an artillery duel. Every body seems to have the rumour that we are leaving in a few days. I supervised the issue of water all day. The supply is now cut down to 3/4 gal per man I only had 360 gallons to divide between 400 odd men but I got through to the last drop.
Thursday 28th A long list of successes have come to hand. The allies are doing well, Bulgaria has had a nasty knock and a British submarine has sunk a big German Cruiser "Prince Adalbert". We have lost two more transports. We now hear that we are going away in squadrons. Another busy day for me issuing water. The new reinforcements have a fearful thirst. The sea is very rough and the small boats are suffering. The tug has a job to reach the hospital boats with the sick in. So fierce were the breakers that whilst enjoying a swim I got washed right up on to the rocks.
Friday 29th Every night two sergeants take it in turns to go out on a scouting patrol and each had reported a different story every morning. One man said that they could see a Turkish outpost changing reliefs, and the other said he used to go further and reported all sorts of wild tales but no outposts - an officer went with them last night saw the outpost but the other man refused to see it. Something serious may come of it. A battery near us blew up a lot of wire entanglements on their trenches with 6 high explosive shells last night. Rec a letter from my brother to day.