Thursday Feb 10th Had a touch of old Gallipoli dread again had to drug myself heavily to avoid it. Five old LHFA mates are here in the camp now as they have returned from meningitis hospital I had them up sleeping with me and financed them.
Friday Feb 11th Went on leave with Bert W Jim K. Called on Sullie and then went to town spent day there went to Kursall and Abbaye-de-Roses a soir.
Saturday Feb. 12th My turn to stay home and it was an eventful day, casualties kept coming in I had to stitch up a chap who was wounded by a bayonet through skylarking then there were two football matches on and I had nearly all the losers over to be treated one man was brought in unconscious and another who was drunk was run over by a gharri. There was no doctor in camp he was at the races, one of our lads was riding Gossamer and his mount fell and rolled on him. After Tea I sent four men to hospital suffering from Ague Pleurisy, Ptomaine Poisoning and Meningitis Query (Temp 104). Wrote home and to others.
Sunday Feb 13th Big parade in a m. I did all the dressings by myself, in pm took Bert W to O?Rs spent pleasant day went to Bulac had game of tennis etc. returned for Gwennie to give me my French lessons.
Monday Feb 14th Have not received my mail for a month except strays. To-day I had the pleasure of meeting Major Lewis who as Captain I nursed back to life on I assisted at his operation on that awful night of May 20th and then I had to sit up and fight him all night while he was unconscious if any man passed the gates of death he did. He was very pleased to meet me and anxious to hear all about his behaviour etc. It is a pleasure to meet any old patients it makes us think we did some good after all.
Tuesday Feb. 15th Another of those miserable wet days. I had to go to town to see ADMS concerning transport work. Saw Col but he cannot promise anything definite as order has been cancelled. Had my book Audited and drew money for dentist, then went to Shoubra and spent evening there All the LHFA lads have returned to Mena