Sunday Feb 6th A bright sunny day I awoke feeling some thing wrong with my eyes, and on looking in the glass I saw the usual dilation of one of the pupils, this has been quite regular and I put it down to reaction of the nerves, then my right eye was up to-day so I went to find the doctor and as soon as I went out in the bright sun I went temporily blind and lost the use of the lids. I saw the doctor and he gave me a fright by saying I had partial paralysis. I put on black glasses and they immediately got better. I am going to a specialist in the morning.
Monday Feb. 7th Went into specialist at 1 AGH in morning and I was thoroughly examined, I went before two doctors and the test lasted about an hour eventually he told me that my optic nerve was alright and I need not worry but as soon as the eye again enlarged I am immediately to go down. It was a great relief to me as I have been dreading it. I believe all my mates of the L.H. F Amb are now contacts at Abbassia.
Tuesday Feb. 8th I went down to Abbassia to see all my old LHFA mates who are in hospital as meningitis contacts, only one is at all suspicious the others are just contacts. At night I went to the big entertainment at the Opera House, we reserved seats. The company were Red Cross Helpers and were very good, all professionals. They called themselves The Pops. It is the best show I have seen since I left Aust. During the day the remaining squadron of the composite Regt returned from the Western Frontier. They report they had a big scrap on 23rd Jan but beat the enemy although there were 300 casualties in the force.
Wednesday Feb. 9th Worried all day as I am in peculiar predicament I have an opportunity of going home to Aust as AMC Detail on a hospital ship and my application is written out signed by the Dr. Then again I am promised the sergeants job with the 12 LH and they expect to reform this week so I am between two fires but I have decided to withhold my application for a few days. Rec letter from Malta NS.