<p class="page" id="a3040016">[Page 16]</p>
<p>"Fremersberg" at 5.30 p.m. just about dead beat.  My bag was jolly heavy a quarter full of clothing, and three quarters full of stores given me by Frank Abbott.</p>
<p>Before I go any further I must not forget to mention a little incident which happened on the 18th March:  We were mustered as usual at 7 a.m.  I was surprised to hear my name called and I was told to pack my bag and get it on the train to go to "Holzminden" with the passengers of the "Matunga" and "Hitachi Maru".  I couldn't make it out why I alone had been picked and I wasn't exactly struck on going, but I packed my bag and put it with the passengers luggage on the train.  The three passengers from the "Matunga" were pleased I was going, and they asked me how it was that I alone was going with them.  I told them I had not the slightest idea.  Well I went up to Frank and told him I wasn't at all struck on going.  I was to go the next morning.  Well I was sitting talking when "Sid Rae" a chap from the "Matunga" came in and said "It's all right, you are not going with the passengers".  I was glad in a way but my bag had already gone on so I gave it up as lost.  I put the mistake of sending me away with the passengers down to this.  We had all been given forms to fill in stating full name and occupation, for my occupation I put "Clerk", so they must have taken me for some kid.  After I had found I was not going I also found the reason why.  It seems that one of the passengers of the "Hitachi Maru", a chap named "Dempsey", disliked by all who met him, had been a soldier and was going home on leave.  He had been left out of the list and when he found I was in his place he went to the Huns and told them where they had made their mistake.  The passengers vowed revenge on him and said he was not entitled to go with them as he was still a soldier.  By the way the passengers spoke he was in for a bad time with them.  One of the "Matunga" passengers, a chap named "Macanally" told me he would readdress my bag if they could get it for me.</p>
