
[Reverse of the above postcard, posted in Egypt and postmarked from the British Camp Heliopolis]Mrs Burrowes SnrUpperbyRooty HillN.S.W.Australia
Dear GrandmaWe are pretty well settled down here now and used to the routine of the Camp. I have had a trip to Cairo, it is a quaint and wicked place with lots of peculiar sights. With narrow old streets with a most decided smell, not pleasant either.Don
[Transcriber's notes:Achi Baba Gallipoli, was a prominent hill feature offering a commanding panorama of the Allied beachhead at Cape Helles and was therefore highly placed on the Allied list for seizure.A.M.C. - Army Medical Corps.Annie is Arthur Burrowes' wifeBingle Ronald (army number 4402) died on 8 August 1918.  Horace is probably Horace Lovegrove referred to on page 15 in the letter dated 20th February 1916.Boskers - Australian slang meaning "very good".Lieut. General James Gordon Legge was a controversial General who with no recent combat experience, was promoted over General Monash.  He clashed with Monash over actions on Gallipoli and eventually Birdwood manoeuvred Legge to Egypt where he took command of the 2nd Div.  He was in charge of the division at the Battle of Pozieres where Don Mackenzie died.L.H. - Australian Light Horse Regiment.Lighter - this is a type of flat-bottomed barge used to transfer goods and passengers to and from moored ships.Loopholes - Historically, narrow vertical windows from which castle defenders launched arrows from a sheltered position were referred to as "loopholes.Moascar was an army camp on the outskirts of Ismailia, on the Suez Canal.Oban is about 120 kms W of Coffs Harbour.Orange Prince - sunk by a German submarine on 15 November 1915 while sailing from Alexandria to Mudros.Pioneer Battalions - During the war roads and railways needed to be maintained. Engineers alone could not meet the heavy demand, while riflemen were always needed at the front so Pioneer Battalions were raised to support engineers and infantry.Tel-el-Kebir is 110kms NNE of Cairo and 75 kms S of Port Said.  During WW1 it was a training centre for Australian reinforcements and the site of a large prisoner of war camp.  The town is now called Ezbet Mohammed AteyaRobert (Bert) Vallack (army number 61) an electrical fitter, was in the machine gun section of the 5th Infantry Brigade.  He served in Gallipoli and was repatriated to Australia from there in January 1916 probably as a result of having jaundice.Riverstone is in NSW about 12kms N of Rooty Hill and about 20kms NW of Parramatta.Russell's Top was 750-100 yards east of ANZAC Cove.Walker's Ridge crosses Russell's Top]
[Transcribed by Miles Harvey, Betty Smith for the State Library of New South Wales]
