
April 29from the line one long roll of terrific concentrated fire has come down:  from the noise of it, it is the Boche's barrage.  Now, still without interruption the guns are firing and recoiling and to the dull distant roll, our guns have added their fury, no cases have come down from the line:  at 6 a.m. a big batch of locals in and some terrible wounds and six deaths.
[Drawing of cross.]Comme-ca has been killed:  Cliff of the bonser manner and urbane smile:  Cliff, Cliff the thinking of you brought you clearly to the mind, and your smile and voice takes the harshness of death from the reverie.
"Proud then, clear eyed and laughing, you have met death as a friend."  Requiescat.
93.In the Dressing Room, met this morning Frank Middleton.  I recognised him at once, though I'd only known his face and sincerity manners at Woollahra.  In the 4th Batt., today's his first wound for 21/2 years.
April 3094.Morning.Kemmel Hill rumours:  The much abused Tommies stampeded, the Boche swung around behind the French, and took 6000 prisoners.  Later - the French greatly counter-attacked, won back the hill, and took 3000 Boche.
Dull again:  a few of the heavies going, and the Sanitary Party using 5.9 shell holes for refuse.  Now a rumour or a whispering of all yesterday's gunfire.
Last night yarning awhile to Rowe - back from evacuation of last Oct.  He is a second Frank Hungerford - a slow permanent smile easy charm, and a beautiful body.  He is a trifle heavier than Frank, more beautiful in movement than in easy repose.
95.A mail in yesterday - T.L.S., Ap. 18.  Two from Mother, Feb. 25 and March 10, and one from Mat, Feb. 24.  Mother on "Twinkletoes".  "I read Twinkletoes and I really can't say I enjoy reading of low life and bad English.  But it takes a lot of different people to make a world.  I liked her, but didn't find any pleasure reading the book."
Mother myne!  Bad English!! and those wounderful pictures of night about Limehouse - of the terrible types made beautiful, and of the great passions.
