
March 29Mail:  receipt from Davies & Oriole for 141.
Rain blown across the country, sun, and brief patchings of blue amongst great deep clouds, cold.
Evening:  yesterday and today, a cleansing out of panniers, medical cases, and O.R. boxes, equipment all cut down, for move to La Somme, so tonight have "Songs Before Sunrise" again.
Posted to Mrs. H. package of first four numbers of "Gheitz", the first three of "Aussie", Hunt's "Cadences" and Sydneian of Dec. 1917, and home to Geoff copies of late Anzac Bulletins.
Read today chapter of "St. Pauls, London" of Bond's, some good theory of Architecture in it, and an interesting essay.
Tonight a short sudden bombardment, flicker of light around the black sky, flickers passing in even waves.
What is the position of the 4th Divy.:  reports following official reports place them at Beaumont Hamel, north of Beaumont Hamel, and now at Dernancourt.
The "Rumour" of note is some point of the bayonet charge by us, and a bag of four Divisions and the French somewhere attacking, taking 3,000 prisoners.
March 3020.Rumour lifts her lying head.  The Boche is on the offensive in the Somme, and the 3rd Divy. has driven him back 2,000 yds.  10 divisions have been flung against Vimy Ridge, and luridly she whispers our troops have lost it.
Rusty comes in very snooty, at the 2nd Batt., a Major coming up to him asked,
"Do you belong to the Transport?""No sir!""Then why have your putties tied around the ankle, what do you belong to?"  "1st Field Ambulance!""Ah!""It's all these Tommy-inspired - think about:  saluting and damned imitation disception - we must bloody well win the war y' know!"
Yesterday on the way back from one of the C.C.S. trips, by the road to Loche, nailed against the trees, was a great notice, "all wastage drags the war out", and about 40 staff cars pass it in a half day.
21.Back from 11 C.C.S. - Tommy, with 1st Pioneer chaps, head wounds, arm and leg.  On the way down took his boots off, and threw them down in the car, and forgot them.  At the C.C.S. after the Bearers had taken him in, one of them sighted the boots, and fancied them - arrogantly:  so I told him he couldn't have them, and he brought the Sergt. out.  So my
