  
 April 1 28. Turning in, still at La Clytte:  'De Zon' Camp emptied of its men, and all A Sect. there now at Reninghelst.  Several shells have passed over us here - and seemingly landed at R. 
 Aerial activity this morning.  Boche planes over, and one chased to earth by Vllamertinghe [Vlamertinghe]. 
 This afternoon to Gottesveldt [Godewaersvelde] - to 11th C.C.S., back through Mt des Catz [Mont des Cats], Mt Deveden, and home. 
 Padre O'Brien returned "Vengeance of Fionn".  He's a fine type of man, richly tolerant and popular all round:  he's the one Padre I would enjoy a confiding with:  he is well read, a poet, and the ideal R.C. and his manner is charming. 
 T.L.S. a quite interesting issue. 
 Oh for the hot sun and the golden days, today's been warmer than usual, the sky a milky tourquoise, well clouded about the horizons.  But I long for the days that burn brown the face and hands ,strike>that  and the nervy knees, for the old Henencourt days of training when the beauty of our chaps was one with the colour of the days, and their marching to a high and [indecipherable] band more splendid than life. 
 April 2 29. 10 a.m.  No word of our handing over M.D.S., probability of our holding here for few days, before leaving for the South, rumour strangely silent as to our destination.  Arras? or Nieuport? 
 Writing a slow letter to Mother, nothing seems to provide news, started to write of the R.C. Padre, Father O'Brien and half commenced a censoring of the general Padre, but even if Mother would understand my attitude its not worth while. 
 Perhaps the three Padres dodging about the Resuscitation Tent at Dickebusch were exceptions but they were "bloody nuisances". 
 Write to T.B.C. for Moore's "Story Tellers Holiday" and after a deal of thought, for Stephen's "Crock of Gold". 
 30. Turning in, move tomorrow from here at 10 a.m. 
 The Seaforths and Camerons have arrived from the Somme.  During the afternoon Dick H. and self to the Y.M. and a meeting them there, and a long listening to their yarning and telling as only the Jock can tell, tales of retreats and stands, tales told in splendid rapid phrases, brilliantly impressionistic. 
 Tonight with Eric G. a yarning with two 
