  
 May 16 139. Gas shells about the D.S. early last night, but no casualties. 
 The rumour was that we were sending over gas during the night:  but their guns have been comparatively quiet, so probably nothing was done. 
 140. p.m. Up early in the afternoon, and a bath in the field in the hot sun, then after tea a listening to Vern's singing, to an accompaniment of Basil at the Piano and Scold with the violin.  Sitting on the steps from the room to the road, and the door open, each small party of Infantry, coming down to the Y.M. for a bath, then passing back again, were our changing audience.  For an hour yarning there to a 2nd Batt. chap on spotting for Artillery work, a yarning of Paris, of Gaby Dislys and all the lovely dancers, he's a French Canadian, a Vaudeville Rag dancer, he full of quiet appreciation of enthusiasm for the right songs, of Vern singing.  To meet for a while one of these facinating chaps, to meet them suddenly and in a natural manner when in a yarning mutual loves are revealed is one of the happiest happenings here, but they're rare - but as memories precious as old friendships. 
 No mail. 
 May 17 141. a.m. Since midnight the Dressing Room filled, emptied and filled again, some had woundings, and two deaths.  Got Murphy and Cato on, and two good men.  We are well officered now, better than since the Factory Corner stunting of early 1917.  Major McKillop, Capts. Blackall, Murphy, Cato are all good men - good in their work and in their manner in the Dressing Room.  Capt. Conner is the same. 
 Has the stunt from the Boche - rumoured for Sunday morning - started?  Early today he attacked in front of Meteren.  Just the bare word of the attack is ours:  Caestre will probably be the A.D.S. of the stunt. 
 Today will about compleat our stronghold:  from trenches about the fields and about the station, signs lead to the main cellar, saps for stretcher bearing:  but if there's a big list of casualties it will be of very little value, and bearers and patients will have to take their chance. 
 Shelling last night close about the Brasserie.  Concussion in the D.R. from anything even moderately close would be rather solid! 
 The sun above the quiet still trees richly red, and already the sky shows clear of clouds, above the church blocking the end of the road the two Boche 
