
April 25, 1684.  p.m.Australians against Four Times their Numbers.
The Australians who were still holding the hills fought certainly at least four or five times their own numbers.  In yesterday's fight Australians killed or wounded about four thousand Germans;  in to-day's they must have accounted for far more.
When a full history comes to be written the Australian Empire will realise what a magnificent buttress the Australian Imperial Force has been to the cause of our race and to humanity and civilisation in this, its darkest hour.  This week's work, if nothing else, will give our children the right to glory in calling themselves Australians.  There was never a finer fight in the history of our army than that fought by Australians to-day.  (Cutlark)
From Anzac Bulletin of April 12, of April 5th and 6th, the Battling of Villers- Brettoneux [Bretonneux] on the Somme.
Again "The Australian Empire!", and if those who come after are true to the men who are dead and are fighting, the youth of our Empire of the Pacific will be more splendid & fruitful than the age of England's youth, the age of the Elizabethean.  "The Australian Empire of the Pacific", the words sing in the heart.
April 2685.  a.m.Early in the evening of 24th the French by us sent over gas, and gas came back to us all that night and yesterday morning.  So last night Bucholtz and self on Gas Treatment, and all the night only 7 in gassed - all slightly.
A quiet night:  two straffes - the last at 5 about the A.D.S. and one shell on our ration limber, standing between a line of Ambulances.
April 26Last night a Celebration Dinner - the eight of us - and Champagne Toasts to the Dead.  B. Section's Toasting lasted well to midnight when the old,
Good-bye Cairo!  Cairo!Good bye Cairo!  Cairo!Good bye Cairo, good-Bye!
was resurrected and finally damned.
86.  1 p.m.
[Drawing of champagne cork and glasses.][Picture of two soldiers plucking chickens with the following caption.]Anzac Bulletin, April 1918"A Change from Bully Beef".
