
April 5Buckholz - to use his own mouthed adjective - is despicable, he holds in his narrow nature all the characteristics of his people.  Johnny seems all he cannot understand as heresy, hardly a day passes but "Oh you sorts" damn sore lad.  More than once he has honoured me with the distinction - most amusingly even when I expressed wonder at the dressing of the miners women of Newcastle.  "-Oh you sorts think that because a man works he can't dress well!", etc. etc.
There's a wounderful compassion with the bearer cliques.  A Section, Toby, Ridge, Clarrie and John - with the newly admitted Joe G.  The old clique was good - Nicki, Toby, Bill F., Ridge, Clarrie and self.
B clique holds two of the representative men of the unit, Wilk, and Billy, Les, Caff., Mick, Jimmy, "Olli" and Murph compleat.
C's is charming, half a dozen whose days pass laughing, Ernie S., Les C., Mac, Eric P., Gil, and Harris.
It grates me horribly this compassion that's always in my mind.  What I only imagined when I joined A sub., now is proved, and this constant self eulogies, and belittling of B and C subs., grates the more.
Thank God for a diary, what a terrible inflection this would be on Les or Eric or any of the chaps.
April 538.For a folio of Edmund Dulac's illustrations of exquisite tales.  The books that hold his drawings are too bulky for their contents, so the idea is good, to collect the plates from his editions of Hans Anderson and the Arabian Nights, and remount them to a book of stiff Whatman paper - a paper of ivory black, with the plates mounted on an ivory or a powdered gold slip.
Willy Pogany's books are beautiful throughout, the decorative page-endings being as fine and sometimes more beautiful than his coloured drawings.
Arthur Rackham's illustrations and the books containing these are supplementary.
There is some new illustration in black and white:  one of his drawings from a book of Hans Anderson, I saw at [indecipherable].  Must look this book up, published by Harveys.
All I look forward to immediately is the sun and the days of green and gold, and the future apres - a surrounding to a study of building and architecture, and all that architecture means, and a designing of a den and a carving of panels and furnishings for it.
And writing this the rumour comes of the Boche stealing from our Pozieres cemeteries our crosses - for the gaping Berliners to sneer at!
