  
 June 25, 26 229. A Dull day of little jobs, and no mail.  Frank up from the Amb. with a proof copy of No. 6 "Ghutz" - and a good number:  in fact the best of the collection. 
 June 26 230. A good day.  Scott in the hut all the day till six, working at his oil-sketch:  I am in an official drawing - in the R. Corner at the table opposite Mac.  At six away with him (Scott) to La Kreule, to Ambulance Billets, and a happy yarning there with half a dozen - Ellis, Clarrie, Frank D. and others.  Nick and Toby with a Baseball Team. 
 Mail there, "The Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man" and the 1st Impression of Alec Waugh's "Resentment" - in its 3rd edition. 
 Also T.L.S. of June 13, and the damned educational supplement of June 20, write to them tonight. 
 Sketched this morning from a Post Card, a back cover design for Ghutz.  So far Basil hasn't sent me up my copy. 
 Post away tomorrow "William Blake" home. 
 Called in at Pioneer Transp. and saw Vin Davis awhile.  The same Vin, and the same manner of charm. 
 June 27 231. Back, by the pool, after a long walk alone, by Hondeghem, to the M.D.S. and on by S.A. Scottish Camp. 
 Comes memory tonight and wondering:  lying this afternoon for a while in the sun, a memory came of the men who are dead, and names passed in my mind, and faces of old friends, calling from the old past a hundred happenings.  Jackie and the gold and blue of Bondi, and he the leader of a dozen pagans of life.  At Woollahra P.S., Jackie was in the band, and from Jack Fraser I'd heard of him, and seeing him, I wanted to know him well, that was in 1906 - or before.  Then I came to know Jackie well, and to envy him his passionate live and easy happening living. 
 Jackie is dead:  buried by Hill 60. 
 And Gil Homes follows, Bondi again, and Gil fresh from the showers, standing wet in the sun, a myth-paen of the sun and the surf. 
 Gil is dead, in Mesopotamia, and Ernie, and Paddy.  Freddy Flowers, and N.H., Norm Reed, and Snowy, Dick Seymour and Mark. 
