
May 27, 28168.A long day of broken working:  maps rolled for distributing to unit H.Q.s, minor clerking, printing notes for adding to Sheet 36 A.N.E. - the map of our area corrected to May 22, printing from map press and pasting to map headings:  still about 50 to do, and a folio made for Patrol Maps.
Mail up by Blue D. from La Kreule from T.B.C., J.C. Squire's "The Gold Tree", a beautiful edition with title page by Spare, and type of the style of The Riccardo Press.
A day of full sun loveliness:  a crime to deny by working.
A big attack in progress by Soissons, and still yesterday's bombarding here continues.
169.The Americans are introducing to France a new and deadly gas, it is so strong that getting into your pay book it will kill your next of kin!
May 28170.  7 p.m.Finishing a tracing of Reserve Brigade's position in the case of the Boche penetrating beyond Borre.  Tom asked me if I wanted to go out!  I told as great a lie as I've ever managed when I said, "Not if there's anything you want doing!"  ("I'll do your plan Serj." - I could hear in my mind Les' irony.)  But there was nothing he'd particularly for me, so I'm out at last and in a field deep in gold:  but the sun's gone.  Blue brought no mail with him.
May, 28, 29171.After an hour back and a while adding notes to Maps of Reserve Assembly, then a letter written to Mrs. H. and one to Geoff and one to Mat enveloped.
Today I heard a good yarn.
An American asks a Monser what the ribbon is he is wearing,
"That's a Mons Retreat Ribbon.""Sure, well you'll be getting some bars to it?"
Read out in the field "The Gold Tree", a dainty little essay of colour and quiet.
May 29172.Soon the old pleasure of writing here will go, days tied to tracing boards - drafting and printing leave no times for wandering about in the sun, reading and lazing, and you're as far from the Infantry as you are from Australia, for a while there'll be no more listening to their wounderful impressionistic tellings of stunts, patrols and the line, no more with half a dozen others bathing, and baking, no days of gold and green.
Tonight, I'm wondering on the unit I've lost, and
