
May 19148.10 a.m.Leaving "Ghutz" to Basil to compleat cover:  roughed out a page of "Salvage" pars.  Wilk. bit seeing the cover - he took it for a "sling off" at his goat episode of "Strazeele.  He had salvaged a she goat, and bringing it across a field the Boche started iron salvoes:  the telling is of Vic throwing the goat into a shell-hole and mounting guard:  Vic was richly mellow with old wine.  A sacrilege to turn in, the day so full of sun and colour, this morning the Boche was to have started here his great attacking:  but beyond the heavy rumbling of far away guns, the early morning has been unusually quiet.
Yesterday no mail again:  Today?
149.p.m.This evening with Les F. to the end of Borre, and a flower grouting - white Lilac and pale mauve, pink and brilliant cerise stock, a white bag of young lettuce from the garden by the new cemetery by the trenches.
Found too a vellum manuscript book of cataloguing.  Velum? It is more of a fine skin texture, and there are pages of living and wounderful comliness.  Item 61to its ending, "Laus Deo" varying in its colouring as the brush has emptied of its colour mellow with age and beauty.  Entries fill the deep margin, some in Gaelic.  It is a book that has seen the early 17th century.
Mail:  From T.B.C. James Stephen's "Reincarnation", from the T.L.S. revue and its [indecipherable] quotations from "Righteous Anger", "The Weavers" and "Peggy Mitchell".  I'd anticipated a second book of rather difficult translation, but just a brief lazing through it cutting the leaves and a finding of a book of good reading.
Blue H. in tonight, and talk of the Boche attack rumoured for tomorrow night, and of a high confidence, the lone weak point is the Tommies front:  but even if they break the stage managing is good and the French and 1st Division will join again.
May 20150.a.m.The 5th relieved in the front line by the 4th, and two 5th casualties through.  A quiet night, guns about here silent with breaks of occasional sudden salvoes, rumblings from the flanks.  Planes over and over.
The morning full of sun, but I'll turn in early for a sleep today.
