
Australian Corps.Corps Headquarters,August, 7th, 1918.
To the Soldiers of the Australian Army Corps.
For the first time in the history of this Corps all five Australian Divisions will to-morrow engage in the largest and most important battle operation ever undertaken by the Corps.
They will be supported by an exceptionally powerful Artillery, and by Tanks and Aeroplanes on a scale never previously attempted.  The full resources of our sister Dominion, the Canadian Corps, will also operate on our right, while two British Divisions will guard our left flank.
The many successful offensives which the Brigades and Battalions of this Corps have so brilliantly executed during the past four months have been but the prelude to, and the preparation for, this greatest and culminating effort.
Because of the completeness of our plans and dispositions, of the magnitude of the operations, of the number of troops employed, and of the depth to which we intend to overrun the enemy's positions, this battle will be one of the most memorable of the whole war;  and there can be no doubt that, by capturing our objectives, we shall inflict blows upon the enemy which will make him stagger, and will bring the end appreciably nearer.
I entertain no sort of doubt that every Australian soldier will worthily rise to so great an occasion, and that every man, imbued with the spirit of victory, will, in spite of every difficulty that may confront him, be animated by no other resolve than a grim determination to see through, to a clean finish, whatever his task may be.
The work to be done to-morrow will perhaps make heavy demands upon the endurance and staying powers of many of you;  but I am confident that, in spite of excitement, fatigue, and physical strain, every man will carry on to the utmost of his powers until his goal is won;  for the sake of Australia, the Empire, and our cause.
I earnestly wish every soldier of the Corps the best of good fortune, and a glorious and decisive victory, the story of which will re-echo throughout the world, and will live forever in the history of our home land.
John Monash.  Lieut-General.commanding Australian Corps.
