  
 11. Copy of letter from Headquarters. Palestine Brigade, R.A.F. to O.C. 40th Wing, R.A.F. With reference to the Combat of Lieut. Tonkin and Lieut. Sutherland, which took place yesterday, Major-General Salmond wishes his congratulations to be conveyed to these Officers on their Aerial Victory. The Commanding Officer of this Brigade also wishes to express his appreciation. (Sgd.) Wyndham Birch, Major, Brigade Major, Palestine Brigade R.A.F. In the Field 23.7.1918. "The above refers to a two-seater enemy machine which was shot down near BEIT LIBB." 
 12. Copy of letter from Headquarters, Palestine Brigade, R.A.F. to O.C. 40th Wing, R.A.F. With reference to Combat of Lieuts. Peters, Traill, Walker, and Letch, which took place yesterday, Major-General Salmond wishes his congratulations to be conveyed to these Officers on their Aerial Victory. The Commanding Officer of this Brigade also wishes to express his appreciation. (Sgd.) Wyndham Birch, Major, Brigade Major, Palestine Brigade R.A.F. In the Field, 25.7.1918 "refers to a combat with an enemy two-seater encountered North of MULEBBIS. The enemy machine was finally crashed East of TANTURA." 13. Letter received from Headquarters, Palestine Brigade, R.A.F. to O.C. 40th Wing, R.A.F. With reference to the combat of Lieut. Paul and Lieut. Weir today, Major-General Salmond wishes his congratulations to be conveyed to these Officers on their Aerial Victory. The G.O.C. also wishes to express his appreciation. (Sgd.) J.M. Glen, Captain, Staff Captain, Palestine Brigade, R.A.F. In the Field, 16/8/1918 The above refers to an enemy machine that was shot to pieces in the air 16/8/1918 over DIER ALLA." 14. Copy of telegram received from Headquarters R.A.F. Middle East, to Headquarters, Palestine Brigade, R.A.F. and forwarded to O.C. 40th Wing, R.A.F. \Arm Wing.   A.G. 150   24th.   AAA. The following congratulatory message has been received from the C. in C. 'Please congratulate Officers of the Australian Flying Corps, 1st Squadron A.F.C. and particularly the following Officers:- Lieut. McGinnness, Fletcher, Peters and Trail to which are added those of the G.O.C., Palestine Brigade. 