
This note, which also bore the seal of the signatory, copy of which is attached hereto, was ultimately taken  by Lieut. Blake to BEERSHEEBA, and there handed to Capt. Nathan, Staff Officer of the area/
Both the Sheikh and the Sheriff displayed a very friendly attitude towards our Officers, and intimated to Lieut. Blake that they would take Lieut. Tonkin and Lieut. Vyner into BEERSHEEBA within three days.
While this discussion was in progress Lieut. Tonkin and Lieut. Vyner accompanied by Lieut. McCann arrived, and Lieut.  Tonkin confirmed the statement of the Sheik that they were being well treated. He stated that he was compelled to land as a result of his engine seizing. He made a good landing, but burnt his machine believing that he was in enemy territory. After further cordial salutations from the Sheik and the members of the tribe, Lieut. Blake took off and flew back to BEERSHEEBA.
The following day Lieut.  Blake accompanied by Captain Nathan set out from BEERSHEEBA  by air , located Major Chetwynd and his party at AIN HASB , and dropped a message upon them telling them of the discovery of the missing officers, and the probably movements. Soon after dropping this message Lieut.  Blake flew down to a low altitude, and recognised Lieut. Vyner with this party, together with a number of Arabs, whom he presumed to be the Sherif's party.
(Signed) S.W. Addison, Major, Commanding 1st Squadron, AUSTRALIAN FLYING CORPS.In the Field.16/8/1919.
COPY  OF  LETTER  SENT  TO  BEERSHEEBA  BY  SHEIKH
His Excellency,The HudirBeersheeba District.We beg to inform you that a few days ago the aeroplane had fallen near ENEZ Station, which still belongs to the Turks. As soon as we caught sight of it, we hurried to the rescue before the Turks could arrest  or attack them, and the Aviators themselves corroborate us.
We took them to our houses and showed them as much hospitality as we could. We afterwards sent them, accompanied by our sons Motab and Hail riding to lead them to you.
As our Allies are quite sincere to us we should be faithful and grateful to them; we should also serve them to the best of our ability.
Could you please send me with bearer a Mouser Revolver and enough ammunition for it.
(Signed)  SHEIKHOEL-HEWETAT,HAMAD-EL-GAZY.