  
 4. Copy of telegram received from G.O.C. Palestine Brigade, R.F.C. O.C. 40th Wing, R.F.C. O.110.      23rd May 
 Will you please convey General Salmond's congratulations to Capt. Ross Smith and Lieuts. Kirk, Paul and Weir'. "The above named officers on 22 May 1918, accounted for an Enemy Scout near NABLUS.' 5. Copy of telegram received from G.O.C. Palestine Brigade, R.F.C., to O.C. 40th Wing, R.F.C. 
 O.132          14th May. Telegram received begins Convey my congratulations to Lieuts. Paul and Weir on their aerial victory General Salmond. Ends also please convey congratulations to O.C. Palestine Brigade. 
 "Lieut. Paul and Weir met an Enemy aeroplane near NABLUS, and after a running flight which lasted for 20 minutes, forced the enemy machine down apparently out of control which crashed violently into the side of a mountain." 
 6. Copy of letter received from G.O.C. Palestine Brigade, R.A.F. to O.C. 40t Wing, R.A.F. PHOTOGRAPHY. I am very pleased with the results of the photography done on the 14th inst., in the DAMIEH area. The success of the Pilots in covering so completely such a large and difficult area is most praiseworthy, and their energy and perseverance in going out again in the afternoon to complete the work was very commendable. I am also glad to notice that the prints are of such good quality and reflect such credit on the Photographic Staff. Kindly convey my congratulations to the members of the A.F.C. and R.A.F. Concerned.  (Sgd) A.E. Borton Brigadier-General, Commanding Palestine Brigade, Royal Air Force. In the Field 16.5.1918 "The above refers to photographs taken by Lieuts. Cameron, Watt, McGinness, Lukis, Fletcher, Beaton and Kirk." 
 7. Copy of letter received from O.C. Palestine Brigade R.A.F. to O.C. 40th Wing R.A.F. Yesterday's report from you shows an exceptionally fine piece of work on the part of Capt. Smith, Lieuts. Kirk, Paul and Weir. Individual action of this description reflects the greatest credit on those concerned, and the demoralisation of the enemy in attacks of this nature will, I am sure, be felt. 
 (Sgd.) G.A.  Burnett, Lieut. Col. Commanding Palestine Brigade, Royal Air Force. In the Field, 22.6.1918. 