
25 Sun.  Church Parade  Too wet to go any where or do any-thing.  Sing Song's in Canteen's  Favorite
26 Mon.  Col Jackson called me off Parade and handed me a letter of invitation to play a serie's of Game's with Wilton School of Arts.  Chess, Card's Dominoes Etc.  He gave it into my Hand's & I Picked a Team.  He gave us leave from Parade to Practice and Bought us Board's Etc. We won the contest and He was very pleased.
27 Tues.  More Drill Etc.  Some cow got among our Radisches and it was Suspicious  it only took Radisches
28 Wed.  Nothing doing.  Watch set for the Cow.
30 Thursday.  Drill all day.  The Hut Orderly reported the cow was our Lt Levy with 4 Cloven Hoofs.  Officer or not he had to ante up.  It cost him a 10 Gal Keg to square [indecipherable]  Dear Radisches
31 March Friday.  All day on the Rifle Range
1st April.   Fool's were made of us all.  Pack's Etc Rifle's everything was ready.  Fritz was supposed to make a landing.  We flew to it.  The seargent's nearly went mad excited1st continued.  all in readiness.  We were ordered to stand by for orders.  The Officer's came and told us to put our Pack's away you "Darn Fool's"  We did & then fell in and then marched out of Camp to Wilton.
2nd Sun.  My first Guard in this Camp.  I prefer it to the droning old Padre on Church Parade.  I am here now for 24 hour's.
3rd Mon.  Off Guard  Off duty.  Go fishing.  My Friend the Game Keeper lent me tackle and Put me onto a Pool.  English rivers are very shallow.  The deepest I saw was only 6 ft deep.  The water very clear of course except the Thames.  I got 8 Beauties.  I gave Davey two & sold the rest 3/- each to the Officer's Mess.  I went back to the Game Keepers for Tea & he & I went for a "Joll'o' to Barford St Martyn's
4th Tues.  Another Draft, Going to night  We can miss our chum's now.  Our Family is getting very small.  The 8th Re inforcement's are expected in a day or two then we will soon get a start  The War Babies are to be kept here till they are old Enough
5 Wed.  A Day among the Machine Guns  Concert to night  Very good, Some good Talent come here
