<p class="page" id="a5686010">[Page 10]</p>
<p>reciting or making some sort of noise. It would, however, be interesting to hear the opinions of the men suffering from mal de mer. All this will soon be altered, of course as it will not be long before sunset will bring a darkened ship and silence. The two nights referred to above, these conditions were enforced but only the officers concerned knew for what reason. As we were in the vicinity of several islands during this period, the general opinion is that the object of these precautions was to keep the ships whereabouts as secret as possible.<br/>The last few remarks brings one to another practice &ndash; "Boat Stations" a most important one now-a-days. Every unit is alotted to a certain portion of the ship, and to certain boat and raft stations, which they are to immediately take up on the "Boat Station" signal being given by the ship's whistle. Every man must know which boat or raft station he is allotted to and the way laid out form, him to get to it, so no confusion will arise, of course we have all been issued with life belts and have to wear them on each alarm. No warning as to when the signal will be whistled, is given, so as to make the practice as perfect as possible.<br/>Certain men have also to perform duties detailed them, such as screwing down the portholes, closing the water-tight doors, etc, and it is wonderful how quickly the whole thing can be carried out. We are becoming experts now and a few more practices it will be only a matter of four or five minutes when everyone will be in his allotted place and all necessary action taken. The A.S.C. form up on the place allotted for cricket so therefore have plenty of room to move about in. a guard is also issued with rifles and each man thereof takes up a commanding position near the boats or rafts as previously instructed &ndash; this precaution being considered necessary in case of panic or breaking of the ranks by some of the men who, to say the least of it, might become "overanxious". It is to be hoped that we are not called upon to face the "stern reality" as although the chances of everyone on board being saved are good, it would be a pity if such a fine ship as this was sent to the bottom. However she</p>