<p class="page" id="a5686013">[Page 13]</p>
<p>Featherweight, lightweight, welterweight and heavy weight) were easily the most popular and several very good fights were witnessed. The final of the heavyweight boxing was fought off on Saturday afternoon and was won by the representative of the Engrs, he knocked his opponent out in the first round. The boxing finished u early in the afternoon so a cockfight competition was arranged in the boxing area to fill in the rest of the afternoon. This is a sport in which two men each with a man on his back endeavers to one another down by wrestling and much merriment was caused. Several times the contestants nearly fell over the ropes into the crowd and just near the finish the whole four competing at that particular time tumbled over the ropes into the boys looking on. The incident was much appreciated by the spectators. The A.S.C. were beaten nearing the finals and the competition was eventually won by the heavyweight boxing winner and his partner. The winner is a popular chap and was cheered again and again. A parody a familiar song was sung for his benefit and he was made a guest of honor for that night. Our first indications of the proximity of land (other than the thought that we must be somewhere handy after such a long stretch on the water) was the sight of numerous birds &ndash; including swallows and three vessels at different times. These put us all in high spirits and we eagerly looked forward to the renewal of acquaintance with terra firma. On Friday we had our first nights excitement. At about 10.30 orders were issued for all lights out and the ship was darkened almost immediately. Those who were not in the land of Nod noticed the lights of some ship moving in the opposite direction to which we were going and she appeared to be at no great distance away. Judging by the actions of the ship's and some of our officers there seemed to be some mystery surrounding the vessel and it was quite exciting (made so by our own thoughts) for half an hour or so. However when the lights disappeared from view we soon settled down again.<br/>The four days and nights preceding our arrival off th American coast we all had to wear or carry life belts to all meals, whilst on duty, and everywhere else we went</p>