<p class="page" id="a5686016">[Page 16]</p>
<p>the very dark to light blue colouring of the high hills, the white buildings and the red tiled roofs of the city, the bright patches of blue and leaden patches of cloud in the sky &ndash; the whole set off by a clear reflection in the smooth waters of the bay, combining to make as effective and pretty a scene as possible as if in honour of our arrival. We soon realised much to our regret, that we would not have the opportunity of setting foot on what appeared to be such a beautiful place. however our attention was soon directed to the canal itself. As we passed the fortified positions of the city the whole of the troops, who had previously fallen in on their "boat stations" stood to attention, the buglers sounding a salute which was timed to work in with a specially selected party on the sun deck for the occasion. These duties only took up a few minutes and we then settled down in groups at the many vantage points of the ship to watch a really interesting moving panoramic views of this region, which would be unfolded as we steamed slowly along the canal.<br/>The first objects of interest just after passing Panama were huge cranes, loading machinery, shipping, wharves, offices and boats and a little further on we passed big ironworks with wharves etc. at one of these wharves the first warship seen since leaving Australia was sighted, she being the U.S, boat "Ulysses". We now, about 11 a.m. worked into the canal and the country for a few miles on both sides at this particular spot was low lying and marshy. Very thick tropical vegetation was in view in all directions varying from a vivid green near the boat to a dark dull green on the big hills in sight ahead. The undergrowth near the canal itself was remarkably thick and it appeared so dense in places that it seemed possible to walk along the top of it without making much impression. Here and there a stately palm would rise high in the air as if acting as sentinel for the immediately surroundings. Along both sides of the canal from Panama to Milaflores locks hundreds of sign boards of all descriptions, giving 100 to 110 yards in length etc also several</p>