<p class="page" id="a5686023">[Page 23]</p>
<p>through these locks easily outshone those of Pedro Miguel and Milaflores. There is not the slightest doubt that the people who greeted us gained the impression that we were a happy lot. Whilst in the last lock the band played the American National Anthem and every American soldier there promptly stood at attention and saluted &ndash; a most impressive scene. There were quite a number of pretty white girls but &ndash; "so near and yet so far" but the sight of them was heartening. A large number of suitable songs for the occasion were sung by the "Euripides" choir. Just as we were entering the bay the whole of the electric lights on the locks and in the town streets were switched on in a flash and the brilliancy of the scene as we moved slowly away was a fitting climax to the wonderful experience of passing through the Panama Canal. the lights of the "White City" Sydney could not be compared to this for effect and we left (6.30) thoroughly satisfied and fully compensated for the long ocean trip previous to our arrival.<br/>It was now only a matter of 7 miles to the end, Colon, and this was covered in bright moonlight. By the way a lot of niggers managed to get on board in early stages and they created quite a lot of amusement by giving impromptu concerts in different parts of the boat. The boys gave them all the encouragement possible, as a result of which they had the niggers doing all sorts of cake-walks and wriggles and nearly turning themselves inside out. They spoke fairly good English and incidentally sold souvenirs such as booklets and post cards of the canal, being all well trained in the part of charging, a few minutes after we slowed down off Christoble (near Colon) and moved alongside one of the wharves there to coal &ndash; mooring alongside at 8.30 p.m. We had a grand view of the big coaling machinery installed heer which is on the same lines as at Newcastle, N.S.W. Coaling commenced at about 9.30 and continued at intervals until sunset the following day. It was quite interesting talking to the niggers</p>