<p class="page" id="a5686003">[Page 3]</p>
<p>the hammocks are all taken down first thing in the morning thus giving plenty of room for dining. It is quite a novelty and, so far, the lads enjoy it. I might say here that 14 to 18 men are allotted to every table, each table or mess appoints two mess orderlies to collect the food and distribute it, for which services the other men give them two shillings a fortnight. So far no exception can be taken to the food, it is very much on the same lines as we got at Liverpool. However reverting back to the period when we were anchored, just prior to leaving motor launches of all sizes and descriptions, rowing boats, ect., circled around us all the time. The passengers were mostly girls and women, and they threw up all sorts of gifts (mostly bags of fruit) to their various friends. A number of gifts unfortunately missed their mark and fell into the water. Every ferry boat that passed whistled a parting cock-a-doodle-doo so familiar to people living on the water frontages of the harbour duting the past 3 years, and when 4 or 5 where in the vicinity at one time, the noise coupled with that contributed by the launches etc., was almost deafening. Well at 4.30 p.m. or thereabouts preparations were made to get a move on, and a quarter of an hour later, the ship moved off slowly and gracefully, and we all realised that the time had come for a farewell look at the many beauty spots of the harbour, the larger of the motor launches &ndash; four in all &ndash; accompanied us as far as the heads, where the pilot boat the "Captain Cook" crowded with passengers picked us up and kept us company for a few miles out to sea. The sunset that night was glorious and as the shades of night gradually dimmed the outlines of the coast we had just left, many a face was sad as we realised we were leaving all that we hold dear and the wonderful country of our birth behind. However we were aroused from this state of mind by the signal to come and have some tea, and this had the effect of bucking our spirits up again. The following day was spent discussing the various incidents of the previous day, and many soldiers returning to the war related their experiences in England, France, Gallipoli and Egypt to the interested</p>