<p class="page" id="a5686015">[Page 15]</p>
<p>(Sunday 25 of November, 1917, 26 days out) and the dim outline &ndash; just faint blue on the horizon &ndash; of some islands were seen. We watched them materialise as we got closer and closer, until at breakfast time (7 a.m.) we could plainly discern the beautiful colouring peculiar to tropical vegetation. I think we put up a record as far as breakfasting was concerned &ndash; we were all so anxious to see something different from that which had been our lot for so long a period. The weather at this time was somewhat showery, but this seemed to enhance rather than distract from the beauty of the scene. As we came right up and passed these islands the blurred outline of the Central American coast could be seen and we all looked forward expectantly to the "great beyond". A couple of sailing vessels and a tramp steamer were also in sight and a fast motor launch, flying the American flag, came alongside. This launch carried the pilot; who stepped aboard at 9.23 a.m. as aforesaid, to guide us into and through the Canal.<br/>What a grand sight the approach to Panama was. After the performance of a "daily round and common task" for over descriptive ability to aptly portray the entrance to the culminating objective of that long uneventful journey. the ilands previously referred to were of a particular dome shape and a village could be seen very prettily situated at the foot of them. Shortly after passing these islands our hearts were gladdened by a sight which will, no doubt, live long in our memories &ndash; it was beautiful, magnificent, sublime. First of all, further islands loomed up, on the foremost of which a flagpole showed up prominently against the skyline. These islands are fortified and are connected to each other and the mainland by breakwaters. Beyond these and the intervening waters could be seen the city of Panama (the capital of that Republic and with a population of from 35,000 to 40,000) lying in its majestic grandeur in a sort of shaded alcove, the whole being given added effect to by the green (all shades) colouring of the surrounding country,</p>