<p class="page" id="a5686027">[Page 27]</p>
<p>Quite a crowd had lined up to greet us. After getting properly formed up they started on their route march, with of course, the band leading. It was quite a treat to see some really nice looking white girls, mostly Spaniards, but the black races greatly predominated. I say "races" because I have never seen such a mixed lot of nationalities or such cosmopolitan crowd in my life. However one must expect to encounter vastly different people and places now that we are so far from Australia &ndash; this is one of our compensations. As soon as they landed the residents started throwing and giving them all sorts of tropical fruit and souvenirs. Oranges and bananas grow in abundance and as I previously remarked they got a great surprise when they marched through the town proper. They passed through numerous streets narrow but remarkably clean and saw fine artistic buildings. All along the route the natives were lined up thickly on either side and every house seemed to be choc a bloc with varied humanity. Most of the well to do people, of course were British or Spaniards and some came along in their landaus or motors, flags were flying everywhere and the natives, in fct all of the residents seemed filled with exetacy and vied with one another to do us honor &ndash; they evidently appreciated the fact that they were the first Australian troops that had ever been there. We found the better class most hospitable and the masses most amusing and entertaining. The boys eventually reached a reserve where they were dismissed for an hour, which, needless to say they made the most of. They were not allowed off this reserve but were able to procure beer and other luxuries, by giving the purchase money, plus a bonus, to the native boys, some of whom no doubt, showed a record profit for that time since their advent to this universe. They had plenty of tobacco and cigarettes given to them too but the people told them that their coming ashore was quite a surprise and they had not sufficient time to</p>