<p class="page" id="a5686021">[Page 21]</p>
<p>slowly across it. This river is also known as the "Crocodile River" on account of the large number of crocodiles with which it is infested. Several dark objects could be seen lying on the banks in the distance and there were reported to be "crocs" by the ships people but we were not near enough to satisfy ourselves. Here we also passed a big bridge stretching across the river just before it joins the canal &ndash; and the railway line (which could be seen nearly all the way) also crosses at this point. We had the pleasure of seeing our second in these parts &ndash; it was travelling in the opposite direction. A little further on we entered the Gatun Lakes and also run into a particularly heavy rain storm which however lasted about half an hour. a different class of scenery was presented to us here, being in the shape of small islands covered with thick tropical growth, a much wider expanse of water and the whole set off by hills all round in the distance. The run through the lakes (24 miles) was nearly at full speed and we followed a channel varying in width from 500 to 1,000 feet, this channel was marked by signposts, stationary floats trunks of trees etc and was really a water way through the lakes. The next item was our arrival at the Gatun Locks, the scene of another engineering feat not far behind that of the cut. The sun at this time was just setting and the sunset combined with the scenery and water made a really beautiful picture of coloring. Just a few words as to how these lakes were formed. In the first place as already stated the River Chagres (and its tributaries) play the principal part as its normal level prior to being interferred with was many feet below the present of the lakes. The Americans built a huge dam &ndash; or more of a hill &ndash; joining two other hills together, the earth and rock from the Culebra Cut being used for this purpose. This dam is nearly 1 1&frasl;2 miles in length half a mile wide at its base, about 4oo ft wide at the surface of the water and 100 ft wide at</p>