<p class="page" id="a5686020">[Page 20]</p>
<p>wonderful sight to see the rocky sides on each side of us rising almost perpendicular hundreds of feet in the air and to the boys on the boat it appeared as if we were passing a big crevice of a mountain. Just before this we saw the spot where the famous landslides occurred not long ago and portions of it were still plainly discernable. These were the out standing features of the cut region but on every hand could be seen evidence of the tremendous task which this engineering feat involved. Roads had been cut through the hills, great excavations made and here and there could be seen heaps of scrap machinery such as, drills, engines etc. we also passed three good waterfalls on the left hand side and four small towns on the right bank. In each case the waterfalls were caused by a river tumbling down the hill and falling into the canal, adding another great sight to the many already seen. The villages were small and the inhabitants seen were generally niggers. The weather was still showery but the rain only lasted a few minutes each time and did not in any way interfere with the sight seeing. All along the hilly portions the soil and rocks bore evidence of the heavy rains experienced in these parts of the world (averaging up to as high as 160 inches a year in some parts). Water was oozing out on all sides, creating thousands of miniature waterfalls which were wonderfully effective and fascinating in the sunlight. The dense tropical growth extended right down to the edge of the banks on either side resembling a huge green tablecloth over the landscape. Palm and other similar trees were more numerous than hitherto and banana plantations were also plentiful. About 3.30 we passed out of this section and came upon the river Chagres. This river is one of the largest in Panama and played a most important part in the completion of the canal. In flood season its waters rush so swiftly in certain localities that they are more powerful than the Niagara Falls but it was a peaceful mood when as we moved</p>