<p class="page" id="a5686017">[Page 17]</p>
<p>small lighthouses were seen. These are no doubt required owing to the low lying country at the beginning marking the exact course of the deep water channel hard to follow. The length of this section is approximately 8 1&frasl;4 miles with an average bottom of 500 feet. Before reaching the Milaflores Locks (and town) we passed the township of Corozal, the inhabitance being nearly all niggers. It was here that we saw the first train and also white women for weeks and weeks and weeks. The train was travelling not far from us and in the same direction and reminded me of trains usually seen in N.S.W., only all carriages. Two white girls were sitting on a small wharf quite close to us and got a great reception from the boys &ndash; the general being a song entitled "There's a nice little girl over there" by the company. At 11.25 the first locks (Milaflores) were sighted and twenty minutes later we entered the first chamber. There are two pairs of locks in series here and lift the ship to the height of 55 ft to the level of a small lake on the other side the whole proceedings taking about an hour and a half. A few minutes after entering we went down to dinner and soon got rid of our replenishing requirements so as to miss as little as possible. On coming onto the decks again we found that there were quite a number of "whites" also American soldiers &ndash; on the walls of the locks greeting us. They were only about 20 feet away and we greeted them with cheers and all sorts of noises and they threw us up cigarettes, tobacco and a little fruit and some souvenirs. The boys threw small coins, military badges and other odds and ends which were eagerly scrambled for by the shore party. There was an Australian girl amongst them and she was naturally singled out for particular attention. Our boat was the longest that had come through the canal to date and for that reason created as much interest to the people ashore as it did to us. We here also, came in touch with some real American talk and it seemed quite strange, although we could follow it quite easily, - an example &ndash; "Good cheer kiddoes, I guess</p>