<p class="page" id="a5686018">[Page 18]</p>
<p>You guys are glad you've finished crossing the pond". Did we give them American talk &ndash;m why we could hardly understand ourselves at the finish. Of course there were plenty of niggers there also and they were an interesting study. The Milaflores locks are very large and we fitted into each chamber quite comfortably. As soon as the boat was towed into the first lock by means of electric "mules" (3 on each side) running along the walls of the lock (water in this lock being the same level as that in the canal we had just passed through) the huge steel gates (which weigh nearly 1,000 tons) closed behind us and we were securely locked up. The tops of the walls on each side and tops of the steel gates in front and at the back of us, were on a level with the boat deck the highest deck on our ship. the next item was the flooding of this lock and it was peculiar to see the ship gradually rising higher and higher as the water poured in through openings in the bottom of the lock. We were soon in water 22 1&frasl;2 feet deeper than that in which we originally lay in this lock. The next item was the opening of the steel gates separating the first and second chambers then we were towed as previously explained through into the second chamber, the gates closed behind and we rose another 22 1&frasl;2 ft in the same way as before and the gates opened again in front and we were towed through into the lake on the other side, 55 feet higher than the sea level. Our shore friends kept alongside right up to this end and as we slowly got under way again, they gave us a good cheer which was reciprocated in true Australian style. The lake was only a small one being about 1 1&frasl;2 miles in length and of similar width and the first thing noticed here was the muddy colour of the water (which is fresh water). It only took about ten minutes to do this portion, then we came in touch with the Pedro Miguel lock. There is one pair of locks here, so we only had to go through one this time. The same proceedings as before, lifted the boat another 30 ft,</p>