<p class="page" id="a5686009">[Page 9]</p>
<p>high jump and tug-a-war took all the afternoon and the competition was keen in all three events. The same man or rather he should be designated a boy he is not 21 years of age yet, won broad and high jump, doing 9' 9" and 4' 8" respectively. This was a particularly good performance and was recognised by the spectators in the usual way. Only five heats of the tug-a-war were pulled off and the A.S.C. managed to win theirs after one of the closest pulls of the afternoon. Each competitor and team had plenty of barrackers, their own unit comrades as a rule and some of them must get pretty hoarse at night judging from their verbal exhortations to their various representatives to win a victory. These sports cheer the men up wonderfully and whilst in progress everyelse is forgotten. At the finish of each of the sporting days and after we had partaken of tea, a concert lasting for 1 to 1 1&frasl;2 hours was held. These concerts were organised by the Captain-Chaplains (or Padree as they are called by the military) and some really good songs and music were rendered. The comic songs were, as would be expected, the most popular and always bought two or three encores. There is some fine talent on board and the two last concerts (organised ones from time to time) will be held per week, circumstances permitting. To watch these various events from an elevated reminds one of a theatre and many photographers would have been busy to send snap shots of this interesting sight to their friends had they been given permission to do so &ndash; photographing any portion of the ship however is strictly forbidden. Talking about music in this first stage of our voyage &ndash; I do not think it would have been possible to have more than we had. There is a band on board plenty of pianos, violins, gramophones etc, and strings of artists of various degrees. With the exception of two nights, tenth and eleventh out, the ship, after tea, has been a hive of noise and happiness up to 9 p.m. every available musical instrument is brought into play and it appears as if everyone is singing,</p>