 [Page 42] 
 (Friday 26th) Am feeling a lot better this morning It is very cold and raining tonight the Fort got blown in one end. (Saturday 27th) Seen doctor this morning and asked me how I was feeling. I told him that I was better and asked him for discharge, got back to Battalion and reported at (10.20) am It is very cold to day We had snow to night and is still snowing (Sunday 28th) Still snowing and every thing is white and looks very pretty It started to freeze and the ground is very hard and slippry. Did not get out of dugout much only for meals (Monday 29th) Very cold this morning We are deepening our dugout and are digging in under bank finished and got roof on again. It is a lot warmer and more comfortable. Went to bed early Wrote letter to Kate Nellie and card to Mum Had to escort Williams up before Major Herring for trial, he was dismissed. Relieved firing line at 4 (pm) and went into the Delta tunnel listening post spent a very cold night (Wednesday 1st December) Came out of Delta Tunnel a 7 am as they use it as a snipers post in daytime and went into supports The sun is out and we are having a very warm and pleasant day. They are taking a lot of men away with frost bite and frozen feet There are 4 hospital ships here and there is one continual stream of boats going off to them (Thursday 2nd) Still in supports Very cold last night has all the prospects of a fine day Had a fine day relieved from supports at 4(pm) Had a few games of cards and turned in. (Friday 3rd) Went to Wilsons pier on fatigue and had to come home again as we could not get what we went for. Drizzle and rain saps and roads are full of mud and makes walking very heavy. Relieved firing line at 4(pm) Captured 43 Turks in front of lines very warm night Turks shelled hospital and killed 17 and wounded a lot. (Saturday 4th) Still in firing line very quiet all along the line Fine day but cloudy. Warships bombarded Achibaba very heavy Relieved from firing line at 4 pm and went into supports for night 