 [Page 50] 
 (Wednesday 2nd) Still getting ear treated Saw Leo's sister this morning she is a very nice girl She was very busy so did not have much time Went as usual to Gardens with book. Will see doctor in morning and try and get out The name of my ear trouble is Otitis Media (Thursday 3rd) Saw doctor this morning says the drum of ear still swollen and can not get out yet. Have to be examined again on Saturday 5th Went down to gardens again this afternoon Had a very pleasant time returned for tea Had phonograph going after tea (Friday 4th) Had ear attended to Went down to skating rink with friend came home for dinner and went to gardens after dinner with book A French lady gave us some cakes and wine which we greatly appreciated. (Saturday 5th) Seen doctor again this morning he says I am not well enough yet to leave have to see him again tomorrow morning Will be glad to get out Very dull to day and looks like rain. Did not go to garden. Went to bed early Wrote letter to Kitty (Sunday 6th) Still here and under different treatment They don't seem to be able to fix it up properly Went over to grotto and had a good sun bath and wrote two letters one to Mum and to Leo ear paining me worse to night (Monday 7th) Had ear painted inside. The doctor says the stuff shall have to be [indecipherable] around my ear before he can see my ear drum properly. It has be paining me something cruel. Went to bed early (Tuesday 8th) Seen doctor this morning Had ear syringed have to see doctor tomorrow Wednesday Am feeling quite deaf. Went to gardens as usual Saw motor accident opposite golf links turned in early. (Wednesday 9th) Seen doctor and have to be seen again on Saturday Went for walk to gardens came home in time to get payed am getting home tomorrow went to bed early 
 (Thursday 10th) Got leave granted from 1 pm till 5 pm Went over to Heliopolus to see Bob seen him and then went down to see Bill they are looking well Saw Billy also arrived back at hospital at 7 pm (Friday 11th) Bob came over to hospital at 11 o'clock We went out to Zoo and then went to pyramids [rest of sentence indecipherable]. 