 [Page 51] 
 (Friday continued) Introduced Bob to Sister Walsh. Two of my mates from 12th Batt are here [indecipherable] Jobson and ???am Got shifted into I ward. (Saturday 12th) Went to Skating rink and then went to the races. They were very nice and had a good time am not feeling well to day as my ears are giving me trouble again Had to get ear syringed this afternoon (Sunday 13th) Saw doctor this morning and he says that ear looks better. It dont feel better any how. Went to gardens this afternoon Bob came over with friend and we went for walk He left at 8.30 (Monday 14th) Saw doctor this morning again I dont know when I am going to get out of this place as I am sick of hospitals Went down as far as skating rink with Jobson a mate in the 12th Batt. (Tuesday 15th) Saw doctor and am going to be discharged from here dont know yet where I am going to yet hope it is back to the regiment. Went for walk to aquarium this afternoon came back to tea The Nurse told me that I am going to No 3 Auxilliary hospital Helliopolis Am feeling well again (Wednesday 16th) Got orders to be ready to leave here at 9.45 (am) got into ambulance and arrived at No 3 Hospital at 10.30 (am) Am in Ward 21 This was formerly the sporting club but since the war the grounds have been used for hospital They are all Huts holding 50 beds each. They are very airy and comfortable The grounds are very nice Mostly all gum trees planted puts one in mind of home again No 1 General hospital is opposite It is a very large building and was formerly built for a gambling casino but were refused a licence am going down to see Bob tomorrow (Thursday 17th) Saw doctor of this ward and will have to go over to No 1 A G Hospital tomorrow to see ear specialist Jobson is over here too Him and I went down to see Bob. He told me Cocky has gone to Tel.el.Kaba. Stopped there for a while and came back for tea (Friday 18th) Saw ear specialist at No 1 A.G.H. I asked him if I could get out of hospital Doctor refused to let me go. As my ear is too bad yet. He ordered some more treatment and have to see him again next Tuesday. Am not feeling to good today [indecipherable] is rather a rough customer here and is not very gentle with her [indecipherable] and we get plenty of good tucker [indecipherable] 
 Addresses&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;27 Feb&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;18 March No 3459 Pte W.J. Baillie 8th Reinforcements 19th Batt A I F No 1535 Driver R.C. Baillie 5th D.A.C. 5th AFA A I F No 1452 Trooper W.O. McIntosh B troop C squadron 1 A L H Regiment Egypt Mrs. J. Sclater Altyre Seamill West Kilbride Chapou Hat Casqette Cap 