 [Page 43] 
 (Sunday 5th) In supports. Turks shelled heavily but did no damage. Went into trenches (Sunday 5th continued) to do some digging and finished job at 3 (pm), relieved from supports at 4 pm Received letter from Mum. Turned in early (Monday 6th) Had Oatmeal and bacon together this is going to be our regular rations Hope so as it is a bit better than what we have been getting. Very warm to day just like spring. Relieved Firing line at 4 pm Went into A 1 Post (Tuesday 7th) Came out of firing line and went into supports for 24 hours received two letters from Kitty Had game of cards and turned in. (Wednesday 8th) Wrote letters to Kate and Mother Warm to day got relieved from supports at 4 (pm) had usual game of cards very quiet all along the line. Turned in early (Thursday 9th) Received goods from canteen a present from our captain. Went on fatigue to Hotchkiss gully fixing up winter road for mules to come up in the Winter Relieved firing line at 4 pm and went into A 1 post Had 2 till 4 (am) watch two of our company got wounded in supports from stray bullets from the Right of Position (Friday 10th) Came out of firing line to supports at 7 (am) Heavy bombardment by warships on right. Observation balloon ship arrived to day looks like something doing over at Salva Bay. We are getting a lot more and better food lately. (Saturday 11th) Still in supports very nice day relieved from supports at 4 pm and went to dugout played cards and read till got tired (Sunday 12th) Went on fatigue digging Chaplains dugout squared it off by dinner time and finished till 4 pm Relieved firing line at 4 pm went into B1 post warm night and very quiet. (Monday 13th) Still in B 1 post, windy and very cloudy to day looks like rain relieved from trenches at 4 pm. Turned in early. Went on Snipers strength (Tuesday 14th) Went in Delta tunnel post at 8 30 pm Mason is my mate Things very quiet Firing at loop holes and sand bags came out at 4 pm (Wednesday 15th) Went into Delta Tunnel 8 30 Shot one Turk at 500 yards The do not sh? 