  
 98 December 10th There is also a Hockey ground here, once used as a tennis court - The grounds of the lager are very spacious & I really think this is a better camp than Freiburg. It has more conveniences & the whole camp is administered & organised in a very systematic way - 
 100 french officers left this morning per another camp, & there now remains very few Frenchmen. 
 100 English officers arrived from Karlsruhe tonight - all roped in at Cambrai, Colonels, MOs, padres & all ranks to a S Lieut. It was an awful show, the Bosche attacked at two weak points of the salient, we were holding after our most successful surprise attack 2 few weeks before - He pierced to a depth of 1 mile & got behind our artillery & then advanced toward his own line, & cut off thousands. 
 It was indeed a terrible blow to our people. From all accounts troops had been holding the salient for  10 days  before, not relieved, & it was simply held by isolated posts, one comp being responsible for at least 800 yards - 
 We were warned too that the Germans were massing for counter attack & still we were surprised. The whole blunder is attributable to our faulty staff work. We make too certain of things & the feeling that the Bosche will never attack again, should be eliminated - People in England are very fed up with Haig now. He has not been too popular, but this blow will just about settle him - 
 December 17th Just 2 years today since Bert & I left our Dear Home. It seems much longer - 
 We were shifted to another hut today, the Germans are renovating the roofs of some Huts. We are comfortably settled down in our mess now, plenty of food parcels are arriving & everybody is happy. Stones is with me - 
 Played Bridge - 
 December 18th Recd 2 parcels. Walked round square with Tremlott & Stones. We have a roulette school here & have endless fun of a night. I am getting settled more settled now, reconciling myself to my new surroundings. Had yarn with Cull & Mc. 
 General Plumber has gone to Italy to command the Ango French troops there - a French train accomodating 1000 French soldiers going on leave, was derailed when half way through a tunnel when an explosion followed - 900 were killed. The accident is said to be the 