
93 November 26thWalk today - did not go - Recd pcl from A.R.C.
November 27thHad bath before breakfast Have been feeling very uncomfortable of late, so decided to shift from Room 28 to Room 66 with Stones & Gallagher - Will feel much happier at my new home especially as I am clear of the barbed wired-itis element. It is really most appalling to be in a room with some of them.
German class tonight - Debate tonight -
November 28thBusy settling down in my new quarters - Spend most of my time in Room 67 with Morris & Chisholm - play Bridge with them & have cocoa at night with them & yarn till well after midnight - In our room now 2 officers are on duty daily, one cooks whilst other does dirty work, one officer always draws & requisitions for tins & is designated as staff officer tins - I am on duty with Vaughan -
November 29thRecd pcl Bread today Very chilly today - German lesson tonight, played bridge -
busy "mapping" -
We hope to have Jerusalem in a day or so, Turks are preparing to evacuate the City.
Russia is in a worse muddle than before, She is sueing for Peace & demands an immediate armistice -
Italy is gradually improving, whilst we are still pushing - accomplishing all we set out for - Lloyd George wants to know what date America can have equipped & placed in France her first million as now we are entirely dependent on America for men & supply space - also we cannot decide on any further plans, until we have a definite assurance from America -
Recd 2 letters from A & N Store -
November 30thNot feeling very well. Had bath & foot bandaged - Recd letter from Army & navy - Played Bridge.
Had walk round square with Hadden. Wrote letter to Doris - today is St Andrew's Day & there are great celebrations tonight, nearly all the Scotch men are drunk, & visiting every room in the building - It is a great scene, to see them all. Stingel & the Adjt, are at their wits end to know how to what action to take.
Lecture tonight by a German missioneary
December 2nd Decr 1st see after 4thChurch at 11 am - attended - Holy Communion - Raining & snowing a little - Played Bridge, Invited Cull to dinner tonight - He thoroughly enjoyed himself
December 3rdVery cold today - Recd parcel - No walk today on account of last nights "viel wine drinken - Commr Lewis made a speech - expressing his disgust &c, - & Lt Chisholm is now adjt of the camp This appt was made, at the express wish of the older officers,
Cinema tonight - good films.
Vaughan & I on duty today - German class from 6 - 7. Paid professor 64 marks for