
94 December 3rdtuition for month of Decr -
December 4thHad 2nd fall of snow today: After roll call several officers amused themselves throwing snow balls at one another. I was of course implicated & enjoyed myself immensely -
Special wire recd today saying that 16 officers & 3 orderlies will leave for Heidelberg, enroute for Switzerland, on Saturday. My name was included - I feel awfully bucked with life.
Recd 2 Pcls, one from A & N & A.R.C. Recd letters from R. An & B
December 1stRecd pcl bread No concert tonight. Played Bridge, Choir Practise today - Spend lot of my time next room with Chisholm & Co -
December 5thBusy drawing maps for Chisholm, & co all day - very cold. Wire recd this mng including Stones name I am glad he is coming with me - Played Bridge with Chisholm, Wood & Lodge - German class tonight -
December 6thStill busy with map of Jerusalem - Very cold again today -
Invited to Dinner Room 66 67, where McAnally celebrated his birthday. I was one of 4 guests making a total of 14 - It was an excellent turnout - Several toasts proposed & Mc wished many happy returns - Then the room was cleared for Bridge after which we had a few select dances, Lts Airth & Scisson being the stars of the evening -
I adjourned to my room after a most enjoyable evening about 1 am when Tremlott & I had a few words resulting in me being pulled out of bed about 14 times.
Room 67 raided our room at my instigation; & we had a great old ruff & tumble for quite half an hour. Onlookers were highly amused. This attack was launched as a reprisal for the bad treatment meted out to Chisholm, the treatment to Chisholm being a reprisal for the bad treatment I've received on numerous occasions from Room 67.
December 7thVaughan & I on duty today as Cooks - Today is our last day at Freiburg & in consequence, those officers including myself who are leaving for Heidelberg tomorrow are very busy. Packed all my heavy baggage by 2 pm & had it censored in the Chapel by Barney Flipsen at 4 pm
Invited Stones, Tremlott, Staff & self took over 100 tins with us in my box. I invited Chisholm, McAnally, Lodge & Little P. to dinner tonight It being my last dinner, & they have indeed been true friends to me. As a souvenir I bequeathed my arm chair to Aylett &