  
 91 November 21st Up early - German class  of  from 5 - 6 & private lesson from 6 - 7 - The professor is a very good & keen instructor & if we settle down to study, we should go ahead with him. I am very keen to learn the Lingo - 
 Played Bridge again. 
 Todays Communiques revealed some very interesting & pleasing news. We are still pushing in Egypt - Aust & N.Z. troops occupied Jaffa yesterday. This is a most important port - The Turks are fleeing in great disorder - we have captured over 10,000 prisoners besides burying numerous dead, & are also in possession of a lot of guns - 
 The Italians are pushing once again - in one single operation, surprised the Germans & took 52 officers & 2000 men also numerous m. guns The Germans are experiencing great hardships on the Italian front now, with snow, so now the Ice Creamers have started to pull themselves together again, we should expect great doings from them soon - 
 There is still a civil war in Russia - one half the town of St Petersburg is fighting the other, & streets & public Houses are changing hands daily, at an enormous cost of life. The place is in a very demoralised state & all its frontiers are closed down - There is no sign of any understanding yet between the Maximalists & the soldiers & workers union - 
 Several of our cruisers penetrated the Heliogoland Bight & forced the German monitors & cruisers to return under protection of their battleships - It is not yet known what our intention was - 
 We have at last surprised the Germans on west front in the vicinity of Bullecourt & Reincourt - The first attack that has been launched since May 18th - There was incessant fighting there since our failure on 11th Apl till May 18th. The line & villages changing hands 2 & 3 times daily - casualties on both side must have been tremendous - We have lately been devoting all our energy up north, Ypres & Paschendale, thereby forcing the Hun to withdraw troop & guns from Bullecourt sector, leading him to believe that we considered Bullecourt of no strategic value to us, we are anxiously awaiting the report of our people, & I feel awfully glad to think at last after so much bloodshed & sacrifice - This historical battlefield is now in our possession - 
 If we have succeeded in capturing the main Road from Bapume to Cambrai, we will compell the Bosche to evacuate Lille, especially if we succeed in taking that ridge beyond Paschendale. 
 Lloyd George made a speech yesterday It was a very assuring one It is proposed to form a combined war council for all the allies not to have one Comm-in-chief, for all but for one person in authority from each of the allied powers - This to the mind of military experts is a very sound scheme; 
 Recd parcel from R - A & B - 
 November 28th Had bath before breakfast. Recd parcel from ARX also letter from Mary - Football this afternoon, did not go - German class from 6 - 7 Private, & ord from 5 - 6 - 
 Col Williamson was in conversation with Commdt this mg & he informed him (Williamson) that all sick & invalid officers would be in Switzerland within 10 or 14 days, & that in all probability this camp & Heidelberg would be reserved for Italian officers, there are 4000 including 80 Generals, who at present line up for 