  
 99 December 18th work of spies. It is a most regrettable affair. We allies are certainly having no luck, in this war, Russia is still as unsettled as ever - Shooting one another daily. The armistice has been extended, for a fortnight longer. 
 Invited Cull & McQuiggan to tea & played Bridge afterwards - 
 December 19th All sorts of rumours circulate daily about our going away, we are all fed up with such rumours. Very cold - 
 A German avaitor crashed just near our camp today & died shortly afterwards. He must have been an amateur, because he was hovering about                                        trying to land where his mates did, & when He did land he dived into a mound of earth One escaped, rumour says the Pilot escaped & the observer was the unfortunate one. 
 Played cards again. 
 50 more officers from Karlsruhe arrived, all taken at Cambrai. It seems quite strange to see so many tin hats again. 
 December 20th Nothing doing at all just now, excepting we are all certain of leaving here tomorrow, as rumour has it the border is only open for 2 days commencing 20th. I have been designated as being in charge of the sweets - which I provide every day & therefore exempt from all other duty 
 Cull & I went to Pictures tonight - It was a very poor turnout - 
 December 21st Whilst in conversation with one of the recently captured officers, I was informed that at the Cambrai show we had 400 tanks in operation & hundreds of guns & strange to relate the guns & tanks were brought forward & established without the Bosche knowing, despite the fact that his aeroplanes were daily over our lines & unable to detect the guns & tanks as they were so cleverly camouflaged. 
 On one occasion we counter-attacked with tanks & Cavalry. 
 I was also told that we could have gone miles further, but as usual having accomplished our objectives, our troops sat down for a day or two, this enabling the Bosche to organise his men. It is the firm conviction that if our cavalry had only gone on we would have broken thro easily, but alas, we didnt & unfortunately we have lost all we ever gained. That is the 3rd time this year the Cavalry has missed its opportunity - It is very [indecipherable] indeed to hear of all these failures, after 3 years of war. 
 Recd parcel, attended concert tonight. It was an excellent show - Best I have attended in Germany - took ill suddenly after concert 