Arab driver. It was pitiful to see him, and his appearance called forth a storm of invective from our boys, on the head of the ploughman. It would have given me a great deal of pleasure to have been privileged to shoot the poor brute.
If the way had been gay with flowers on the day before, it was doubly so to da now. In addition to anemones, under the shelter of the rocks were cyclamens of "perfect beauty", blue, pale blue, pink, and white. Daisies and a yellow gorse bush flower were in abundance. The day remained fine, though a little cloudy, and we drew in and camped for the night at the foot of Mount Zacariyah , with the village of the same name at its foot. This mountain, though only a little over 900 feet in height, looks quite considerable, and a splendid panoramic view can be obtained from its summit. There are several natural caves in its sides.
Though the location is not certain, it is supposed that here the Phillistines camped on one occasion of a war with Israel, after the anointing of David as King over Israel, though Saul still reigned, and here the memorable meeting, so dear to the hearts of children all the world over, took place between David and Goliath, when the youthful shepherd slew the Giant with his sling and stone. I remember with what vivid interest I listened to the story as a child, especially when David ran forward, and drew the great sword from its sheath, and cut off the shaggy head and the sword was "all bloody". And now I have stood, if not at the place, at least in the vicinity, and I felt all the old interest revive.
Next morning the 18th, we were early on our way, as water was not obtainable here, and we were to water our horses a few miles further on. Here we got onto a good road, dating from Roman times, and at the villa in a flat rocky valley, with the little village of Beit Natyf perched on the heights above us we watered our horses. The water here is good, but full of small leeches. From here we commenced our arduous climb through the forbidding, barren waste of the hill