the Turkish emblem. Under this dome in a room about 12 by 14, with its four windows and door strongly guarded with iron bars stands the Tomb itself. It is draped in some kind of canvas material, the ends gable shaped, surmounted by brass spikes. About 10 or 12 rather fine lamps hang around the Tomb, and on the floor it is encircled with a carpet.
The door was securely fastened with a huge lock. Over the doorway hangs a framed inscription in Arabic, taking the form of a salutation. The whole place presents quite an imposing appearance, when viewed against the dark background of Nevi Mousa, with the sunlight glittering on the white cupolas. This mountain was that on which we saw the attack by the British troops on the 10th Feb.
The stones around here are strongly impregnated with oil. When broken the smell is very strong. It is said the Arabs use them for feeding their camp fires. The temperature has altered wonderfully. A couple of days ago we were shivering, wet and cold in Bethlehem, and now almost into the Valley of the Jordan, we are about 1000 feet below sea level, we are perspiring profusely, and dust abounds. We are not grousing, however, most of us are prepared to sweat, and swallow dust till further orders, so long as the weather is fine.
The Engineers are busy trying to get pontoon bridges across the Jordan, and Jacko's shells can be seen lobbing all round its vicinity all day long. He has made more than one direct hit, destroying the work done.
On the 23rd in the morning we moved down into the Valley of the Jordan. Immense dandelions line the roadway right into the Valley, and the hills on either side rise precipitously, completely closing in the road. Looking across the Valley, the hills on the other side look quite close, though about 14 miles away. The Dead Sea, stretching away to the south on our right, its waters limpid and clear in the sunlight between its barren limestone banks, seems just at hand though 4 miles away. Distances are very deceptive in this clear air.