the clouds are drifting in, piling themselves up in readiness for the coming wet season. In another month or six weeks we will, I suppose, be commencing to taste the unpleasantness of another winter, that will go on well into March. May we be well out of Palestine by then.
31st Oct. Good news. Hostilities between Turkey and the Allies cease at 12 o'clock to-day. It is the anniversary of the fall of Beersheba. One short year, but what a blow has been dealt to Turkish prestige and power in that time. The news seems hard to believe. No one has got at all excited. I think everyone has got so used to war and "soldiering on" that no one they has really realised just what it means.
4th November On the 1st we left the Wadi Hammam for our ride back to Deiran, our last trip back across this country. At 7-30 A.M. we were on the move, and at about 4 P.M. we were in Es Salt, a distance of about 24 miles, where we camped for the night. Our camp there was exceedingly rough, the barest possible space is available for camping areas, between the road and the tremendous hills rising on each side. By 8 A.M. on the second we were on the way again down the main road from Es Salt to the Jordan Valley.
This rough road is very picturesque in a wild rugged way. After A few miles from Es Salt the road picks up the Wadi Nimrin which flows, imprisoned for the most part in a deep rocky gorge, overhung with shrubs and creeping vines, alongside the road right down to the Valley. Occasionally there are open patches with a profusion of flowering bamboos, and a shrub with a blue flower, whose scent reminds one of a scented verbena.
This road is an engineering feat in itself. A few miles, perhaps seven or eight from the Valley, we saw the famous "Jericho Jane", the Turkish big gun that had caused so much unpleasantness in the Valley in other days, upside down in the Wadi Nimrin. Tackle was being affixed to get her out. Only a few weeks ago we used to hear her deep-throated cough, always a signal for trouble, now she and the Turkish Army is a thing of the past.