of pursuing the sensible course, and allowing them to dry a little first.
We have a number of men just returned from Hospital with Malaria, but these men have to stand out in the midday sun grooming for half an hour with the rest. In Egypt where the climate was not nearly as hot, we were forbidden to work in the midday sun. Here, in a place which is reckoned uninhabitable by white men in the summer we are out all day. Nearly every day there is someone going away, and who can wonder. There are hundreds of men being incapacitated by the carelessness and callousness of O.C.'s who lie about in the shade all day themselves, and send their men out on ridiculous pretexts in the sun.
The men in this squadron have not time to have a bathe, or wash their clothes, they are a mile and a half from water and enough water is not drawn to enable them to do it in Camp. There is no freedom until 8 P.M. and after that, men who are not on picket do not feel inclined to traverse the distance to water on foot.
Three hundred gallons of water are drawn here a day for the use of 180 to 200 men and out of that the Officers, seven in number demand at least three 15 gall. fanates of water daily, and have used up to four and a half. The three hundred gallons mentioned includes water for all cooking purposes, water for the farriers, 15 gallons a day, water for dressing horses, and water for medical purposes. So for seven men, there is a consumption of from 6 to 9 gallons a day per man and for the other couple of hundred barely a gallon apiece for all purposes, such as those mentioned above. Then there is no fixed time for filling water bottles, and when the midday cart draws in for the purpose the majority of men are on duty, and a few get it, and the great number slip.
I see Mr. McGrath spoke his mind about several things in the House the other day in Australia, and it was sorely needed, but he did not mention a tithe of the injustices soldiers suffer from. There are many of them cannot be named. They are indignities and insults which are difficult of proof, but nevertheless very real and very hurtful. To say you are looked on as a dog, you are spoken to as one might to a cur at his heels, to realise you are expected to feel as a dog, may be difficult to prove, but ask any man who has