<p class="page" id="a3537015">[Page 15]</p>
<p>I drank the filthy beverage. The Huns call it coffee, but it has not the slightest resemblance to English coffee, either in smell or taste. About 1-30 p.m. several Hun officers entered with stretcher bearers. I felt a sensation of relief immediately they entered. After much shouting and gesticulating, the bearers commenced removing the wounded to the train. Four big dark Prussians took possession of me near the train and lifted me into the carriage. Instead of gently, lowering me, they merely dropped the stretcher (with a thud) to the floor. My arms were folded across my chest. <strike>and</strike>  One Hun noticed a wristlet watch fastened to my arm; he immediately seized my arm roughly, and tried to wrench the watch free, loath to lose the watch, I endeavoured to free my arm and protested by shouting. my attempt to resist him proved useless, as my strength was ebbing fast. He then struck me in the face and forced the watch from my wrist, leaving me helpless and bleeding, caused by the exertion. After much fuss and excitement, the other three Huns lifted me in the stretcher level with the bunk, and rolled me off without the slightest consideration. Despite the rough handling, I still retained consciousness &ndash; but suffered extreme pain. The departure of the train cheered, and encouraged me. The journey occupied six hours, and a severe jolting increased my pain and bleeding. The carriage I travelled in accommodated twenty men, all badly wounded-stretcher cases. We were detrained at Valenciennes, approximately forty kilometres behind Cambrai. The station was crowded with Hun officers and troops, here and there a French civilian appeared. The arrival of the hospital train created great excitement agmonst the Huns; the numerous Australian prisoners accounted for that. The station buildings are similar in size and construction to Amiens. Owing to my critical condition I was unable to make further observations. I felt inclined for food and rest only. After much jabbering and rushing to and fro, two orderlies (dressed in navy blue, wearing the red Cross amulets and the weird Hun cap with badges), carried me to a motor ambulance. I detest people staring at me, and I felt considerably relieved, when I was placed in the ambulance away from the cruel, hateful eyes of Huns. This rough conveyance, accommodated six</p>
