<p class="page" id="a3537010">[Page 10]</p>
<p>sight were two Huns who were intently stripping ammunition and rations from off the dead bodies. They performed this despicable duty with apparent relish, chiefly when they found a pack containing food. These inhuman beasts continued the search for some time, and during the few minutes I was able to watch them, they made a systematic plunder and appropriated everything which was useful; and with special precaution secured the perishable food stuffs from the damp ground. Not infrequently did they laugh and jest as they kicked the bodies over, while searching for useful articles.</p>
<p>Several British shells soared overhead, and these Huns quickly ran off in search of shelter, probably a deep and safe dugout. During this time my position remained precarious and unaltered. Realizing eminent danger I crawled to the very edge of the trench and allowed myself to fall to the bottom. The sudden bump and shock caused excruciating pain, nevertheless the action secured safety. I thought every limb had fallen off. From the shell hole to the trench, I think I had struggled for fully one and half hours. I lay in awful pain in the mud, unable to move again, and more or less unconscious for a considerable time. Quite unexpectedly two Huns approached me, they halted, stood for a few moments looking daggers of hatred and scorn. I thought my end was swiftly coming. However, they merely made a display with their bayonets, meditating whether it would be advisable to finish me or not, then passed on. A few minutes later a Hun Red Cross man came on the scene, and unlike my previous visitors, offered to assist me to the interior of the Hun lines. Oh! what relief! he lifted and supported me whilst I stood on my right leg, and then I fully realized my excessive weakness. He then motioned me to get on his back, the order was most comforting and I immediately forced up my left arm, and gripped both hands round his neck. My legs being limp and useless; he proceeded to carry me towards the village of Reincourt, which was a few hundred yards behind the trenches. He struggled along for about 50 yards, then I collapsed in a heap behind him, but fortunately I managed to struggle on to</p>
