<p class="page" id="a3537060">[Page 60]</p>
<p>have no tobacco and not infrequently some "blighter" robs me during the night. Men roam about the ward day and night, consequently one grows quite accustomed to their prowling, and accepts it as part of the daily routine. Hence the numerous thefts.</p>
<p>10th-17th. The air is pleasant although we are nearly snowed in. The Huns have discovered a new method of causing further inconvenience. Orders were recently issued to the effect, that all canned food must be left in the Store-room; when anything is required, the applicant must use a bowl. The tins are opened in the present of the Felfaber, who censors everything. The men able to walk, tell me it is very satisfying to watch the Hun handling the meats. He stands livid and fuming inwardly and no doubt, wishing he were able to purchase some of the food. He is deathly white at any time, but during the issue hour his face is an interesting feature; showing distinct signs of jealously and anger. One is able to avenge some of the Hun tortures, by constantly tantalizing them in the wards, this is possible whey they stand round the beds feasting their eyes on the supplies received from England. I take special delight in occasionally calling one whilst exhibiting my food stuffs; I ask him the cost in Germany. When told the small cost in England the Hun expresses great astonishment and discredits the figures. One Hun who always patrols my section of the ward; almost begs for food. He is a very effeminate man, in consequence thereof he is commonly known as "Maudie". A few days ago I called him and gave him a small piece of whitebread, this he devoured ravenously, and expressed great satisfaction and stated that white bread was unprocurable in Hunland. This small gift touched "Maudie's" heart; he promptly told me his family troubles. His mother is old, and depends entirely, on him; food is unprocurable in the City, moreover the Military allowance is barley sufficient to sustain her. He has not been to the Front, and is very nervous and afraid he will shortly be compelled to shoulder arms. He tried means of inducing me to give or sell him food. His last endeavour was to offer me a bottle of Port Wine; I declined. He then proceeded to tell me the articles purchaseable in Stettin,</p>
