<p class="page" id="a3537072">[Page 72]</p>
<p>My own friends who have experienced Hun brutality, have told me of the treatment they have received. Where many men are employed in commandos the treatment is extremely severe. It is quite common to see a man knocked down by a rifle-butt or bayoneted. Farm work is hard, but the ill-treatment is not so common. Small commandos (2 or 3 men) are quite pleasant, providing parcels are received regularly. Russians, returning from factories often smuggle goods into camp &ndash; sugar, candles, flour etc. which they retail to Russian Jews, who, in their turn sell them to others. These articles are unprocurable in towns, and indeed, are considered exceptional luxuries in Hun families. The Russian Jews obtain eggs, spirits and wines and retail them at enormous prices in camp. For instance; eggs &#64; 1 &frac12; marks each, wines and spirits which are invariably adulterated &#64; 45 marks per bottle. These articles are also unobtainable in the towns. How the Jews secure them is really wonderful. No doubt they smuggle the goods into camp, and if necessary bribe the posterns. They all speak excellent German. The Hun soldiers here suffer similarly to those at Stettin. Any serious breach of discipline means instant despatch to the Front. Some enterprising enthusiastic English N.C.O's exempt from work, have collected sufficient money to build a small improvised theatre. The Huns allowed them to purchase timber and instruments. The various nationalities stage a concert or impromptu play occasionally. I thoroughly enjoyed one of these entertainments last evening. The orchestra is composed of every nationality, nevertheless it is quite an excellent diversion. The French stage very humorous concerts. How they obtain the female clothing, necessary for the make-up, is quite wonderful. The English usually have a fortnightly concert. Sergeant Post, London Rifle Brigade; Sergeant Gutteridge; Cpl. H.M. Wilks, 16th A.I.F. Purser Hancock and Sgt. Johnson, Canadian; are the chief organisers, and much credit is due to them for the weeks of untiring energetic struggling they must have passed through, whilst arrnging the theatre, and securing the musical instruments. The moderate charge of 5d. per man is collected from those desirous of enjoying these performances. Needless</p>
