<p class="page" id="a3537068">[Page 68]</p>
<p>This curious costume adds weirdly to one's appearance, consequently there is little chance for an escaped prisoner to avoid detection. I also have a pair of Australian military boots and a full kit of underclothing. The Huns issue nothing, unless one accepts clogs and a few filthy rags for clothing. I was taken, in company with four Englishmen, through the gates into the street to await a tram. We waited a few moments. The trams were crowded with people, consequently we were the objects of keen criticism and scrutiny. There are few men civilians to be seen about, but crowds of women and soldiers. The women wear very short gowns; in most cases the skirts barely covering the knees. All dress material is rationed, consequently the women folk dress similarly to children. The journey occupied an hour; I saw quite a lot of the city. The streets are awarming with half-starved, ragged children. The poorer class seldom wear boots, in fact those able to procure footwear invariably use badly worn shoes and boots. I took particular note of shops &ndash; hundreds of butchers', bakers' and grocers' -. Their windows were mostly empty. Beer houses are innumerable and are crowded with soldiers. I also saw dozens of restaurants and large buildings; mostly vacant. The whole city reeks with poverty and misery. On the other hand, I noticed many officers and well dressed women, who appeared healthy, but with an air of discontent. I eventually arrived at the railway station; whence I was marched to a military waiting room. During the hour or so that I remained there, hundreds of soldiers passed through. Later a postern signalled us to march out. (N.B.-  There were three sentries to guard five cripples.)   We stood on the platform waiting for further orders, during which time many people gathered round some of whom spat at us, whilst others endeavoured to engage us in conversation, but the postern promptly interrupted them. I loved to see the jealous hungry eyes studying our clothing, particularly our boots, and not a few pointed at them and seemed astonished. The unfortunate deluded Huns are told that the English are starving and in dire straits. This, no doubt, accounts for their amazement. Leather goods are almost unprocurable in Germany. Military boots cost &pound; 15 per pair. Everything is at least 60 &percnt; more expensive than in England; many food necessaries</p>
