<p class="page" id="a3537083">[Page 83]</p>
<p>stool a few days ago and knocked my knee. On the other hand the weather is pleasant. Huge crowds of men gather near the fences every Sunday. The civilians who pass are mostly women and old men, I have not noticed a single eligible military man. On one occasion a man shouted "Hello Tommy, you are in your place now". The remark was ignored. The prisoners joke and laugh and the people appear to think we are happy to be in Hunland; poor deluded wretches. Old prisoners say the camp is intolerable during the hot weather, on account of disease and repulsive smells issuing from the sand. The sanitary arrangements are abominable. Hereunder are a few of the daily camp incidents. The centre of the camp is a very busy spot between 5 p.m. and 7 p.m. where hundreds of men assemble to cook, it is very interesting to watch them cooking and especially those standing about collecting scraps of food. The Russians and others who manage to scrape up a few fragments boil the concoction over papers and anything likely to give sufficient heat to make a rough stew; the mixture is demolished forthwith. The less fortunate wait about in the hope of having something given to them; if that fails they scratch about the ashes and near places where men have been cooking in hope of finding something carelessly thrown aside. The most illustrious Russian collects wood and pieces of coke found lying in the sand and makes a fire near the cooking area. He charges a penny per vessel to those desirous of using his fire. I often stand a few yards off studying this awful spectacle; it is depressing to watch the unfortunate fellows struggling to get a morsel of food. It is a hellish life for these men, it is nearly too horrifying to write of. Several wells are situated in the square surrounded with refuse pits and filth, consequently the water is bad and injurious to one's health. Notwithstanding hundreds of men collect round the pump to wash bowls etc. Russians and Serbians who have lost a limb, arm or leg as the case may be, struggle along on two sticks. Whilst striving to wash their dish, they are bumped and jostled unmercifully. I have never seen a man offer to assist. When the rush has subsided these unfortunates scratch the ground for bones or scraps of food likely</p>
