<p class="page" id="a3537057">[Page 57]</p>
<p>5. p.m. is a favourite hour for cooking. When the fires are out the Russians collect any rubbish they can possibly find; by this means they soon get a blaze sufficiently strong for the purpose. The scene is very amusing to an onlooker. The average Russian is by dint of privation cunning and shrewd; it is quite interesting to watch them dodging "Old Bill". Hence our tormentor finds his surprise visits unfruitful. In that case he invents trouble and a host of complaints simultaneously pouring forth an awful storm of "donnerwetter verfluch ter mench, loose, vic etc."   At the same time striking right and left at anybody standing within his reach. The terrified Russian, usually stands trembling under "Bill'S" outburst of fury. I am quite accustomed to these storms and merely take them as a matter of course. Like my English comrades I treat this unreasonable beast with indifference.</p>
<p>12th-31st. My parcels continue to arrive regularly, subsequently my strength improves daily, likewise my wound is progressing favourably and I feel much happier. During the last few weeks, I have had my photograph taken in several international groups. I am desirous of collecting souvenir pictures, this practise, of course is forbidden, but I am prepared to risk punishment. A Frenchman employed in the X-ray room, takes and develops the photos; the Hun in charge of the "Rontgen" rays supplies the camera and material. Prisoners in possession of a few pence are all eager to purchase. The Hun of course is well-satisfied. The cards are procurable at the moderate cost of 4d. each. I have made innumerable inquiries regarding remittances from England and learn that 15/- monthly is allowed into Hunland. One really does not need money here, but a few shillings are always useful. I avoid circulating money in this country, nevertheless one often requires small articles procurable in Stettin. Parcels addressed to deceased men, are distributed amongst men not receiving food parcels. Convoys of newly captured prisoners arrive frequently. Most of us realize the urgent necessity for assistance in these cases, so we do our utmost towards relieving their mouths of incessant craving for food. Innumerable women are employed in and about the hospital; these are mostly cooks and clerks. Just recently, I discovered that the Hun women are rationed similarly to prisoners, excepting a little extra meat.</p>
