<p class="page" id="a3537088">[Page 88]</p>
<p>by motor lorries creating a terrific noise whilst passing; close inspection revealed tyres made of steel, between the outer and inner tyres springs are inserted. This ingenious device serves and substitutes rubber. I have seen hundreds of motor wagons and in every case the tyres are rubberless. Bycicle tyres are mostly rope and compressed paper; not a few are plain iron. A few army cars have passed, although rubber tyres are used they are invariably badly worn. The majority of women folk are deplorably attired and mostly wear wooden clogs. They look very unhealthy and dejected. The children are mostly barefooted and dressed in rags and appear to be weaklings. People often step outside the fence and talk to us. The conversation is chiefly food and personal requirements; those I have conversed with, whine about the military predomination. One day I was sitting under a tree near the fence, and noticed a woman signalling to me, so I walked across. She spoke to me in "Pidgin" English; in any case I understood sufficient German to follow her conversation. I asked her how the children fared in Germany and she told me that many large homes were instituted for their education and extra nourishment was provided, but the schools were not able to cope with the numbers. I was just beginning to learn a few interesting facts when a postern interrupted by ordering the woman away and pouring forth a volley "Donnerwetter Englishe Sweiner" upon me. The state of affairs locally is very conspicuous, and one need only observe closely to see the misery and poverty amongst the civilian population. Several Zeppelins passed overhead on the 15th,  they travelled very rapidly, so I was unable to see as much of them as I would have liked.</p>
<p>16th to 24th. No parcels through yet, but I expect something shortly. The weather is glorious, but adds to my incessant hunger. The pangs of starvation are setting in, perforce I have tackled the soups again. A few weeks without parcels humbles one considerably, in consequence any sort of food is acceptable. I crossed swords with the Hun Surgeon on</p>
