<p class="page" id="a3537090">[Page 90]</p>
<p>but he continued working, until the pain unnerved him. He reported sick but was not allowed to cease work, so he continued under those conditions until he collapsed on the road, subsequently his foot was amputated. He has repeatedly asked to be exchanged, but the Hun refuses to grant permission on the grounds that it is a case of self-infliction. The lad is thin and delicate but has the British heart and spirit which will carry him through. Three Russian students captured during 1914, act as orderlies here. They are very obliging to all. One fellow speaks a little English and I fill in many pleasant hours taking with him. He confirms my previous statement regarding treachery in the Russian army, also he informs me that a constant exchange of prisoners was brought into operation following the declaration of peace. Incapicitated Russian soldiers are exchanged for Hun officers; thousands have returned to Germany recently. The Russians are compelled to agree to the Hun dictation. A convoy of newly captured Britain and Portuguese arrived here 24th. They are securely guarded in a small room, consequently it is impossible to hear the latest war news. The local Hun newspaper is smuggled in occasionally. I recently saw a cartoon, which caused much amusement amongst the English here. The British War Loan contrasted with the Reichstag failures - converted into a ludicrous success &hellip;   The Interpreter occasionally visits the town to fetch goods from storerooms. During his most recent visit, he saw several large posterns illustrating recent British failures. The whole thing is absurdly exaggerated, but no doubt, the deluded people think it correct. Only today I found a small booklet titled "Gott straffe England". It contains many verses of hatred and articles of the most ludicrous kind. The book is, I suppose, intended to incite hatred and malice amongst the population. Owing to an accident I was unable to retain the book and foolishly neglected to copy the contents. As a matter of fact the disgusting article was destroyed by an Englishman.</p>
<p>25th. I had barely donned my suit of white and filthy hospital clothes when several Huns rushed into the ward shouting "Bell vic loose Schwiss". I promptly called the interpretor and asked him the meaning of this unusual excitement. He informed me that I was</p>
