<p class="page" id="a3537081">[Page 81]</p>
<p>no doubt my correspondence has been destroyed. The Red Cross people are quite exempt from blame. I received a photo of a girl friend taken on horse-back; the photo was free from writing. The Huns nevertheless, disfigured the picture making it look absurd and ridiculous. This sort of thing is quite common, merely another method of cruelty. The Huns know perfectly well that letters and especially photos are very cheering and comforting to prisoners. By cutting pieces from letters and disfiguring photos they cause us additional unpleasantness. This little incident aroused my anger and determined me to avenge these months of torture and misery. I have often received letters from my people with pieces cut from the centre making the text unintelligible; I am certain the writing contained only family talk and matters of no importance to the Huns. Of course the Hun excuses himself by saying the matter was contrary to military censorship. That is absurd, as our own censors exercise a strict, rigorous examination of all correspondence. My own personal experience in this unpleasant affair is quite insignificant compared to other men. Undoubtedly thousands of letters are destroyed solely to cause uneasiness and worry. One has no privileges under Hun discipline and brutality. Many newly captured prisoners arrived from the Cambrai Sector. The latest war news is conveyed to us through prisoners. The Stettin Times and Berliner Tageblatt are often smuggled into camp. News is brief where Allied successes are concerned, Hun victories are exaggerated and advertised conspicuously. The newspapers compare badly with the statement made by recent arrivals from the front. We are all confident despite the Hun flag which flies high over the Commandant's office, when encouraging news comes through. The flag is a source of amusement to most of us. When a slight improvement is made in the soup, everybody jestingly asks if the flag is flying. I have seen the "Black Eagle" taken down as often as four times in one day. I have not however, discovered the mystery of its varied positions and movements. The most reliable means of confirming Allied success is to observe the Hun</p>
