<p class="page" id="a3537053">[Page 53]</p>
<p>Russians and French; an Englishman suffers in silence; much to the Huns' astonishment. To have dressings applied, it is necessary to go to the operating theatre consequently, one is taken from a ward bed and carried about a hundred yards through the open and left in the cold, draughtly hall. I have often waited an hour for my turn. Several Englishmen have contracted pleurisy through this practise. The death rate daily averages five, fortunately few English number amongst them. A dangerous case has no possible chance of pulling through; should the patient receive proper surgical attention the nourishment received is not sufficient to revive strength. The most trying ordeal for dangerous cases, is the awful bowl of swedes, which is pushed under one's very nose, that alone is a torture. Only those who have suffered these miseries can possibly imagine how horrible it is; it is indescribable.</p>
<p>10th-17th. My wound continues favourably, but is not painful. I am quite hardened to the rough life here now. I think a little pain occasionally enlivens one. A third operation will be necessary and if my wound does not improve, my leg will be amputated. The date for the operation has not been decided. Hence my terrified suspense. I hate the thought of losing my leg after so much suffering, neglect and inattention. On the other hand, it is quite foolish to lose heart, and dwell upon the possibility of an amputation. One must take things as they come and hope for the best. A brave Tommy had a leg amputated a few days ago. He was not expected to live through the operation on account of exceptional weakness following loss of blood. During the proceedings however, the iron hearted Hun nurses amused themselves by tying pieces of cat gut round the other foot. As I have previously stated, the nurses hold various instruments etc. in readiness for the Surgeon. They play and laugh whilst watching operations; fortunately, Cripps is a brave hearted young man. After the operation, Col. Goldenberg, a Russian Doctor (prisoner of war), injected salt water into his veins to make his heart beat. Also he gave him a bottle of cognac purchased from his own personal funds. Cripps is still living and doing well, and I think, will recover.</p>
