<p class="page" id="a3537056">[Page 56]</p>
<p>Britishers, despite their repeated pleadings for various things. I shall give a few specimens hereunder. Soap &frac12; d. tablet, two marks; &frac12; lb, tea 5 marks and upwards; boots 100 marks per pair; 1 lb. canned meat, 8 marks; jam    1 lb tins 5 marks; bread 2 lb. loaf 20 marks. Similar exhorbitant prices are offered for clothing and food. These figures are merely prices offered by Huns employed on the hospital staff. The street prices are considerably higher. Many of the above mentioned articles are unprocurable. One cannot afford to sell or give; personally I would rather destroy my parcels that allow the Huns to have any. This sort of thing makes them ravenous and furious, much to my delight and satisfaction. No doubt the individual Hun would appropriate our supplies without asking. The military orders, are strict in regard to parcels and the punishment imposed upon defaulters is severe. The maximum Hun punishment, is dreaded by all Huns i.e. They are promptly sent to the Western Front. I have not heard of a Hun who expressed his desire to visit the Front.</p>
<p>11th. My wound has improved beyond expectation and I think, will heal in time. During the day I managed to obtain several French books so I am deeply interested in polishing my French. I have omitted to mention an incident of the 10th of July, i.e. the Hun recommended me for internment in Switzerland. The Spanish Red Cross representative is expected here shortly and I intend lodging several complaints regardless of consequences. The (Ober inspector) C.O. is a typical Hun. He revels in worrying the British. He is commonly known as "Old Bill" and is a most comical creature; he suffers with gout, which adds immensely to his peculiarities. Although we are allowed to receive parcels, it is forbidden to cook anything on the stoves in the ward. The fires are very seldom burning, although they are the only convenience for preparing food. Those able to walk however, take full advantage of the fires. If "Old Bill" comes into the ward and notices anybody cooking, stealthily he creeps up to the unfortunate and without mercy throws the contents of the pot (or whatever it may be) over him. The Russians act as orderlies to we British, unable to do for ourselves; in return for their voluntary aid we give them what ever food we can spare. About</p>
