<p class="page" id="a3537097">[Page 97]</p>
<p>song which we declined to do. I asked him if he had ever visited England, he replied in the negative, stating that he had been taught in a Berlitz school. He also told me that English was a compulsory course in all schools. The journey to Aachen was very fatiguing and I suffered extreme pain; I was indeed glad to detrain. We received pronounced cordiality in Aachen, obviously, owing to one being exchanged. We were promptly taken to a tram. The journey through the city lasted about half an hour; it was very interesting. After alighting we walked some distance and entered a huge building. We were allotted to wards very different to any I had seen before. I was indeed, surprised when I saw the white counterpanes and spring mattresses. This was a most appreciable change and quite heavenly to we prisoners. Approximately twenty had arrived before us so we settled down to await further orders. Several Hun orderlies entered and spoke to us in fairly intelligible English, they appeared to be quite mutual. Circumstances alter cases no doubt. Dinner was served at noon, macaroni and horseflesh. The food was quite palatable and I think, most of the party enjoyed the meal. Personally I thought it an excellent treat compared with any previous fare. 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. walking exercise in the court yard, which is dotted here and there with posterns and surrounded by a huge iron spiked fence. According to the orders posted in the wards prisoners were permitted to exercise in the yard for two or three hours daily. Towards evening additional parties arrived increasing the total to about 700, including 41 officers. A medical and surgical Commission site daily. Immediately the board is finished those marked for Switzerland, Holland or England <strike>with care may be,</strike> are taken to the borders. The Commission is composed of two Huns; one Swiss and one Dutch doctor. 4.30. p.m. tea; soup and black bread, but eatable. During my tour of the building I encountered many Huns who addressed me in excellent English. I asked one Hun why we received better treatment and food in Aachen than in previous hospitals and camps. (The idea is obvious). He merely stated that Germans returned from England and Holland passed through this hospital also the local food supplies are less restricted than</p>
