  
 Gas (Wave & Shell) 
 Chlorine & Fosgene Weeping gas Kills up to 5000 yds on [Indecipherable] Produce Bronchitis up to 16,000 yds P.H. Helmets (Box Respirator) Spica Goggles. Colour differs. (Smoke. oil) Cylinders Failure of Pirpinite First used by Huns April 19[Indecipherable] 25.000 Casualties German Helmets British gas much stronger Effect on Horses My own experience 
 [Transcriber's notes: Albert is 13 kms E of Vadencourt. Arques is about 5kms SE of St Omer. Arras is about 40kms N of Albert and about 35kms N of Montauban. Bailleul is about 15kms NW of Ft Rompu (Australian troop name for Erquinghem-Lys) Bannefay Wood is Bernafay Wood, 2kms south of Longueval. Becordel is Becordel-Becourt about 3kms SE of Albert and 5kms NE of Dernancourt. Bertangles is 10kms N of Amiens. Bois-Grenier is about 5kms S of Armentieres, just inside the French border. Borre is midway between Strazeele and Hazebrouck.  It is about 3kms W of Strazeele. Britannic - HMHS Britannic was launched just before the start of WW1 and was put to use as a hospital ship in 1915. She hit a mine off the Greek island of Kea on the morning of 21 November 1916, and sank with the loss of 30 lives. Buire is Buire-sur-l'Ancre is 25kms ENE of Amiens. Candas is about 2kms NE of Montrelet. Cassel is about 6kms W of Steenvoorde and Noordpeene a further 5kms W of Steenvoorde. Contay is about 1 km W of Vadencourt, 13kms W of Albert and 20kms W of Pozieres. Dernacourt - should be Dernancourt about 2kms SSW of Albert. Doullens is about 10kms NE of Longuevillette. Jimmy Driscoll was a Welsh boxer who fought his way out of poverty. Driscoll was British featherweight champion and won the Lonsdale Belt in 1910. Ebblinghem is about 8kms W of Hazebrouck, so the march was W from Borre through Hazebrouck and on to Ebblinghem. Eecke - is about 20kms S of Proven in France (about 3kms S of Steenvoorde). Ergines is Ergnies about 10kms SE of St Riquier. Ferfi - a Furphy was a rumour.  The word is derived from water carts designed and made by J.Furphy & Sons of Shepparton, Victoria. The water carts, with "J.Furphy & Sons" written on their tanks, became popular gathering places where soldiers could exchange gossip Fienvillers is about 5kms N of Montrelet. Ft Rompu - this is the name of an area about 1km west of the village of Fricourt is 4kms ENE of Becordel. Erquinghem-Lys (about 4kms NW of Bois-Grenier and 4 kms SW of Armentieres).  Apparently Erquinghem-Lys was too difficult for the Australian soldiers to pronounce so Erquinghem-Lys was known to them as Fort Rompu. Goode - Sidney Goode enlisted when he was still 17 years old (he said he was 19 years old) in January 1916 and died on 29 August 1916 at Mouquet Farm, about 2kms NW of Pozieres. Herissart is about 17 kms NE of Vaux-en-Amienois and about the same distance NNE of Amiens. Humoreske in B-flat major, Op. 20, is a piano piece by Robert Schumann, composed in 1839. La Chaussee is La Chaussee-Tirancourt, about 1 km N of Picquigny. Longeval is Longueval about 4kms NE of Montauban. Longuevillette - about 5kms NE of Montrelet. Mametz is about 5kms E of Becordel-Becourt. Mericourt - Mericourt-l'Abbe is about 2kms SW of Buire-sur-l"Ancre. Montrelet is Fieffes-Montrelet, about 25kms N of Amiens. Montauban is Montauban-de-Picardie, about 5kms E of Fricourt. Picquigny is about 15kms NW of Amiens. Proven is in Belgium not far from the French border and about 6 miles NW of Poperinghe.  The distance from Doullens to Proven is about 100kms. Puechvillers - is Puchevillers, about 20kms WNW of Albert. Reninghelst is about 5kms SSE of Poperinge. Saleux is a suburb of Amiens, about 3kms SW of the city centre. Sherwoods is The Sherwood Foresters (Nottingham and Derbyshire) Regiment. Steenworde is Steenvoorde which is just inside the French border about 15kms W of Poperinge. St Riquier is about 80kms SSW of Arques and 5kms E of Abbeville. Strazeelle is Strazeele is due W of Bailleul and half-way between Bailleul and Hazebrouck. Talbot House - Thousands of soldiers passed through Talbot House during the three years it was open from the end of 1915 Toutencourt is about 5kms WNW of Warloy-Baillon. Vadencourt is about 7kms SE of Herissart. Vaux is probably Vaux-en-Amienois which is about 3kms W of Bertangles. Verdun is about 300kms ESE of Amiens.  It is not far from Luxembourg. Vindencourt is probably Vignacourt, abut 20kms NNW of Amiens. Von Moltke - Helmuth Johann Ludwig von Moltke (1848-1916) served as the Chief of the German General Staff from 1906 to 1914. Warloy is Warloy-Baillon which is about 10kms W of Albert. The White Company - is an historical adventure by Arthur Conan Doyle set during the Hundred Years' War. Wessex R.A.M.C. - Wessex Royal Army Medical Corps. Wizernes is about 4kms SW of Arques which in turn is about 6kms W of Ebblinghem. . Ypres - a Belgian town about 15kms from the French/Belgian border.  It was almost completely obliterated during WW1 and has since been rebuilt including the famous Cloth Hall. 
 [Transcribed by Miles Harvey, Betty Smith for the State Library of New South Wales] 
 