[Page 4]
[B. Mountcastle &amp; Sons, Limited letterhead]Office Telephone No. 71.Factory Telephone No. 4018.
B. Mountcastle &amp; Sons, Limited,Military, Naval and Civilian Cap and Helmet Manufacturers.Factory, Musgrave Road, Red Hill, Brisbane.Registered Office: Kent's Buildings, Albert Street,Brisbane, 11th October 1918
Registered Cable AddressReuter's Telegram Co. Ltd."Quaid."
Contractors to the Commonwealth and State Governments.Manufacturers of Quaid's Patent Kapri Air Chamber Helmets.Quaid's Patent Tram and Rail Cap for Tropical Wear.Mountcastle and Quaid's Patent Grease-Proof Attachment.Quaid's Patent Unbreakable-Brim Straw Hats.
No. 6765,Pte. F.J. Brewer,20th Battalion,2nd Division,Australian Imperial Forces.Abroad.
Dear Mr. Brewer,
It was quite a pleasure to receive your letter dated the 8th August, and to hear that you are now, in good health &ndash; I have no doubt, you will be pleased to be able to assist the Hun over the Rhine, and it is to be hoped, that the lesson we all wish him to learn, will, have the effect, of keeping him on his own dung heap for the next 5 or 6 generations &ndash; I am glad you have had such a grand opportunity of seeing so much of England and Scotland, and your experiences in the various cities, and towns of France, will be no doubt, exceedingly interesting.
In case you can get over to Dublin, I enclose you a letter of introduction to my brother, who is well known in that city &ndash; I feel sure he will do what he can to give you as much information as possible, about one of the oldest and remarkable cities of the British Isles &ndash; the two Cathedrals, Christchurch, and St. Patricks are well worthy of visit &ndash; if there was nothing else, but to see the ancient tombs, the time would not be lost &ndash; the older portion of the city is remarkable, and is of great historic interest &ndash; my brother, who I understand is an authority on old Dublin, will no doubt post you up.
Stanley Sowden told me that he had a letter from you, but I have not yet seen him it. France is a beautiful country, and a walking tour from Deippe through Normanby up to Paris is a glorious way to see the country.