(18) Beautiful day. The people here dont observe the Sabbath it is just the same as week days. Shops and Hotels etc are all opened and do not close until early morning. Had a stroll round with Signaller McNeil this afternoon, went through the native quarter native Markets some queer sights, a bloke deserves the V.C. to tackle the food they prepare.
(19) No news of when we are going to return to Lemnos. think they must have forgotten us. A large force of Indian troops arrived here from France this morning on their way to the Persian Gulf. The Ex Premier of Greece arrived from Athens this afternoon was accorded a great reception from the Greek populace his name is "Venizellas". A great statesman.
(20) We still remain here. We are properly fed up with it, We want to get back to our own Battn. Saw a French Ammunition Column pass through the city to day, they appear to wear all kinds of uniforms.
(21) Our ship was taken out into the stream this morning moored near the French Warship "Latouch Treville". Major Wilson and his A.M.C. men left the ship this afternoon to join forces ashore. We have a new mob of Firemen aboard mostly Arabs, the Greek fellows we had are all getting shy of Submarine Torpedo boats.
(22) About 3A.M. this morning Major Wilson his men rejoined our Ship. Instructions received to proceed to the Dardanelles with all haste. 4 French Transport ships left here this afternoon escorted by cruiser. Ship takes in Coal other provisions left about 6.30. We had it very rough for a start.
(23) Very strong wind blowing this morning vessel tossing about a great deal. We passed near the Island of "Candia" (Crete) at 6P.M. The sun looked very pretty setting tonight this evening. Steaming with all lights out tonight.
(24) Sea much calmer this morning. 2 large steamers passed by this morning going south. Passed the Island of "Kasso" at 1P.M. We arrived at Lemnos when the first of the convoy left for the Dardanelles escorted by 6 Battleships, 4 Cruisers, 8 Destroyers it was a grand sight. We heard a strong Demolition party had landed from the Warships spiked a number of guns at Seddul-Bahr Kum-Kale. Other Troopships preparing to leave.
(25) We can hear the big guns booming early this morning heard our boys had made a landing at Gaba-Tepe drove the Turks far inland. We left here at 4 this afternoon for Gaba-Tepe anchored off at 7A.M. what a din, the big warships pounding away at the Turkish Forts the Turks returning their fire, shells were bursting out over the Bay were numbers of Troopships are anchored one burst over the stern of our boat wounded 1 chap the bullets fairly hissed as they struck the water. There were Destroyers flying about in all directions towing boatloads of Troops ashore were they are fighting for their lives. One can see the spits of fire from rifles bursting shells overhead. it was a grand but terrible sight. We are to take a crowd back to Alexandria who are wounded. A great batch of boys came aboard about 8 oclock with all manner of wounds, there was some awful sights to witness. We left about midnight for Alexandria, some of the boys were terribly smashed about before we reached Alexandria 10 of them died were buried at sea. We done our best in the way of looking after them , we were only 16 strong. The majority of them disembarked in Egypt with not even being washed the blood all over their uniforms but the majority were very cheerful. It was my misfortune to have been left on Ships Guard as nearly all my old pals were ashore, landing even before the Battn. But perhaps its all for the best as I may have been stopped by a bullet. but it wont be long I hope before we are taken off this job.