August 5th Our Battn left bivouac about 4P.M. this afternoon to relieve the 7th Brigade near "Pozieres"whohad lost a great many men in the last 2 days. We came under Shell fire just after entering what is known as "Sausage Gully" were the Germans had their 1st Line trenches, we pushed on and occupied their 2nd Line trenches being shelled heavily all the time and losing many men killed and wounded on the way up to the ridge. We occupied enemy trench about 8P.M and what a shambles they were in, trenches torn to atoms by the great shells, dead and wounded Germans and Australian lying twisted and mangled out of recognition. There was hardly a square yard of ground that had not been ploughed up by high explosives, often a shell would get right in a part of our trench and half a dozen men would go out in one pop. There were dead bodies by the score and what a stench. Men were buried by the mass of earth torn up by the great shells, you could see an arm or leg sticking out here and there, its wonderful at anybody being able to stand such a fire, it was a hot shop, Our boys had to crouch close into the sides of what had been trenches and just wait see who would be next to go. Our Major was standing at the entrance to an old German dug-out, when a shell came and finished the lot. We set 2 of the boys to work to try dig him out but had to give up. The shells came as thick as rifle bullets what a roar, when they burst the noise was deafening. The bombardment kept up for hours. The Hun trying hard to wrest the ridge from us at all costs. Lots of my old mates were wiped out lots wounded. I had a busy time doing up some of the lads wounds, as most of our stretcher bearers had either been killed or wounded. The Steel Helmets we wore save many a men from being badly hit about the head. Poor old Cp. Jack Mullholland got a nasty wound, tried to do my best for him, but he died in a few minutes, one of the boys shouted out to me that young Callaghan had been hit, so I got busy on his wounds left to see how things were faring on the right, had not gone many yards when I saw some of our boys who had been smacked, standing in one of the old dug-outs, I was just telling them of the great risk they ran of being buried alive, when "Wallop" a great shell burst close to us smashed dug-out buried several of them, I must have been tossed a few