(12) Still snowing hard. Our Artillery Bombard "Bullecourt" all the morning and smash down what few German buildings stood. The Town is occupied by Fritz and no doubt well fortified. Enemy Artillery get pretty busy this afternoon, one shell burst among some of my lads but only one Cpl Hunt wounded, his left arm being torn off. Lieut Davis and myself pay a visit to A. Coys lines about dusk, enemy guns busily shelling it. 3 of our "Tanks" lying about in No mans Land disabled.
(13) Turned out a fine day. Everything was real lively this morning Aeroplanes by the dozen flying around, one of ours shot down over enemy lines in flames. Some of our Aviators do some fine work flying at the height of only 20 ft or so and fireing their machine guns into enemy trenches. Another artillery duel this afternoon. We were releived by the 18th Bn to night and marched back to "Bapuame" reaching there at half past one in the morning.
(14) Left camp and marched to Railway Sideing about 11 o,clock, a shell from "Fritz" long range gun blew up a Railway Engine quite near and held up the Traffic for some time. Left "Bapuame" by Train about 4.30P.M. passing "Achiet-le-Grand" "Beaumont" and several other towns and arrived at "Albert" about 10 o,clock. On the march again and passed through "Becourt" and arrived at "Crucifix Camp" near "Fricourt" about midnight.
(15) Sunday. Raining again to day.
(17) Marched from "Crucifix Camp" about 10 o,clock this morning and passed through "Albert" - "Millencourt" "Laviecourt" and arrived at "Bresle" at 2P.M. and put up our own little Billets. A great number of German Prisoners were being marched through "Albert" as we came through.
(25) April. Anzac day. Brigade Sports held to day near "Henencourt Wood" a great success. The 45th Bn won 6. Firsts 2. Seconds and 3. Third prizes out of 11 . Events not so bad at all. We had a real fine day for it and everything went off grand, As a matter of fact it took our thoughts off the War for the time being so on.
Best love from Dad XXXX