14 A regular scorcher easily the hottest day up till the present with hot winds sand storms. Church Parade held early this morning. One of our new blokes from Australia had his left forehead shattered by a bullet while cleaning his rifle this afternoon ( The old "Gay" didnt know it was loaded.) Water is still very short here. Have heard we are to be relieved shortly.
15th Another warm day with clouds of flies.
17 Another "snifter" of a day. Heard that "Metz" had fallen. Sounds to good to be true. Boys getting their gear ready to move off in the morning. Paid a visit to 9th Light Horse Camp with Sgt Ashburner Cpl Phillips to night.
18 Stand to arms at 3A.M. Marched out of camp for "Railhead" at 5.30 arriving 2 hours later rested for the day. It turned out another "snifter" of a day.
19 Left railhead at 7 a.m and arrived at Serepeum about 9A.M. Pretty dry march as we had no water issued to us before leaving. As we marched into Camp at Serepeum the old 4th Brigade were out to give us a rousing cheer especially the old 13th Bn who had their band out. It was like old times seeing so many faces one knew made me feel a lump in my neck. A great many of the old boys recognised me called out. God bless them.
20th The boys had the best part of the day to themselves indulged in plenty of bathing in the Canal. Several of my old chums from the 13th came down to have a yarn over old times. Our Coy supplied Divisional duties to night, a bit of a scramble to get enough men together as many went visiting other camps. However I got over the difficulty allright.
21 Church Parades held this morning. This afternoon our 2 friends from the 9th Light Horse who are camped out at Road head about 8 miles from here, came in to see us, and brought 2 extra horse,s in for us to go for a tour which we did enjoyed it immensely of course a dip in the canal was included in the programme. The boys have some high jinks in the Canal when any shipping goes by, hanging on to ropes and any other old thing that hangs over the Ships side, thus getting quite a surf bath.
22 Our Company marched over to west side of canal this morning and were issued with high velocity rifles for use in France, also other equipment and clothing, guess we shant be here very much longer.
23 A very warm day. With Sand storms. The swimming parade was largely attended I can tell you.
Good Bye Dear for the present.