In Hospital at Mudros from 16th Sept. untill Oct 7thOctober 7thA number of patients both sick wounded myself included were sent on board the H.M.T. Caledonia (11,000 tons) this morning to be taken to Alexandria we have heard. I am still a little weak about the legs, guess its through laying in bed so long. Have lost a lot of weight.
(8) The Hospital ship "Rewa" came alongside this morning with a large number of sick stretcher cases. The total number on board 950 souls. Heavy rain fell to night.
(9) A great mixture aboard. English, Scotch, Irish, Welsh, N.Z,s a sprinkling of Australians from various Battlns. Very comfortable we have mattress, sheet blanket also pillow. Of course I am on light diet, will be glad when the time comes for a good feed of meat. Several of the "Tommies" get noises in the head soon after leaving Lemnos they thought they could see hear Submarines everywhere.
10) Bright sunny day. Steamer skipping along at a pretty good bat. A Light Horse Officer died last night after having his leg amputated, he was buried this morning. Passed by 2 French Troopships escorted by a Destroyer going east.
11) My Birthday 31 years of age to day. Another bright sunny morning calm sea. We had another death last night. Passed several steamships. A sharp lookout being kept for Submarines.
12) Very dull morning, right off tucker again.
13) Another lad passed away last night was buried this morning. Sighted Morroccan coats about 4.30P.M off Port bow.
14) Vessel changed course during the night headed for Gibraltar. Came in sight of Spanish coast about 9.30 this morning., starboard bow. Arrived at Gib at 3P.M and steamed into the Naval docks. A wonderful sight to see the great rock towering ever so high. The Town appears to be a fair sized one.
15) Received orders to be ready to disembark at 8.15 this morning after the usual fiddling about we got ashore at midday. We were taken in "Garry,s" to different hospitals. Our group of about 40 were quartered in Europa Pass Hospital a great height above the sea. There has been some wonderful work done here in the way of Fortress building. There are a great many big guns on the rock, some you can see projecting over the parapets of emplacements, there must be many others one cannot see (They say there are 350 Guns on the rock.