 [Page 145] 
 Deported Germans Wives Refuse To Go What Of  The Children? &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;     Wives of some of the Germans who have received notice from the Commonwealth Government of thei deportation have given notice of their refusal to accompany their husbands to Germany. Two boats carrying deported germans and their families will leave Sydney in the near future. The Tras-Esmontes is schudled to leave on June 17 while the Wyreema will go on June 23 or 25. Up till now there has been practically no dislocation of family ties,the wife in each instance being willing to accompany her husband who has been deported. But the authorities have now received noticefrom several women who state flatly that they have no intention of goingto Germany, notwithstanding that their husbands haver no option in the matter. Recently, by private arrangement, the wife of a german refused to accompany her husband,although she was willing and gave her sanction to their young son making the trip. 
 Wives May Remain  The Commonwealth Authorities are not deporting women unless they wish to accompany their deported husbands, and the women who have decided to remain are in each instanceAustralians. So far the authorities in this State have not been called apon to decidethe question of either parent's right to the children ,supposing that the wife refused to go, but in the case of that question arisingit will be assumed that an alien enemy has no rights, and the children will remain with the mother. If by reason of the deportation of the breadwinner the dependents become destitute, it will be a question as to whether they will become a charge on the Commonwealth or the State. 
 Only $50 To Be Taken As it is, the regulations provide that no german deportee shall take with him more than $50 in specie or paper money. Anything he may have more than that must for the present be left with a friend or attorney. This regulation relates to Germans on parole who arew to be deported. It has also been decided that no German shall be allowed to take with him more than 84 lb. of luggage, exclusive of hand baggage, and the luggage he takes into the cabinmust not exceed a space of 40 inches by 80 inches by 12 inches. He may carry excess luggageat his own expense as cargo, supposing there is room for it.  Both the tres-es- Momtes and the Wyreema will be full ships 
