
these packs, two gas helmets, a steel helmet & webbing equipment. When a halt is made for a rest we flop down anywhere into the mud etc. we get so weary that we do not care what happens. The next day we enjoyed a well earned rest, it was heaven lying on a soft bed of straw all day. The weather is almost at freezing point, & those comforts which I received from you & Aunt Ada have come in very useful. On the 20th Oct.
October we again enjoyed an excellent trip in motor busses. The whole Brigade were shifted in this manner, the busses must have stretched a good two miles along the road. The trip took all day, the distance travelled was about 25 miles, & we passed through Some very fine country, spent the night in a small village & slept in bunks, which were built by the Germans at the beginning of the war. You cannot realise how cold it was. I have never experienced anything like it before, & one blanket is not over much for this weather. At 9 a.m. on the 21st inst. we start off for the vicinity of the trenches, it was a most severe march. Felt like falling out before we had gone half the distance, trudged through mud inches thick, after travelling about 7 miles we halted & had lunch, biscuits & bully beef. (You have no idea how I enjoyed the latter). The country we are walking through is one mass of shell holes & dug-outs, it is really a great sight, as we are now on the greatest battle field that the world has ever seen. Passing over country that was occupied by the Germans up till July 1st this year, it is really wonderful the advance that has been made here by the Allies. The dugouts we passed were wonderfully built, they were many feet deep, some of them between 50 & 60 feet deep, it is no wonder that the Huns were here for so long. Of course as far as the eye can see is just a mass of bare country, not t building remains standing everything is in ruins. We passed numerous cemeteries on the way. The roar of the Artillery was deafening. (Kindly excuse writing, we are under canvas again & I am using the ground for a table).