  
 hundreds of motor lorries & transport wagons, also - a busy scene. Tea was partaken of here.  A few hours before we arrived on the scene the O.C. - the Field Ambulance was killed.  We stopped the night in a big dugout as we will not be required before morning. The row during he night was terrific but the majority slept like a log as we are used to this game now. I went on gas picquet from 12 till 1 a.m. but everything was O.K. 
 21st September 1917. Another start is made for the Straffing at 5 a.m. in motor lorries, we travelled through one of the biggest towns in Belgium to the Dressing Station.  The town was even in a worse condition than Bapaume - just a mess of ruins & debris. You people cannot realize or even picture what the place is like - it is a cruel sight. It must have been a fine place in peace time. I wonder how long the latter will be, what a shout of joy will go round the world when peace is declared. A section again proceed to the furthest posts, the same old horrible scenery, rack & ruin everywhere. We had to start work immediately our 5 squads were kept pretty busy till 4 p.m. Most of our stretcher cases were Fritz's & jolly heavy they were too. The majority of them were over 6 ft high. I cannot comment much on the matter, the affair is too ghastly & horrible to write about.  This struggle is a great blow to civilisation  
 Who should I meet at the Post but Fred Cole, Tame & Broughton, all from Neutral Bay,  we were school boys together. About 7 p.m. the enemy were evidently preparing for a counter attack & our Artillery gave Fritz a 3 hour bombardment. It must have been perfect hell in the enemies lines, we stood on the top of the trench & watched our shells bursting there. We were most fortunate during the night, our squad only had two carries. Fred Wiggins (you have his photo) & I are in the same squad,  he & I were carrying together on the Somme. 
 22nd September 1917. At 8 a.m. a rush of patients occurred bur fortunately our relief turned up so you can bet that it did not take us long to clear out. Sad news to hand of one of the 8th bearers is missing named Bradley. I am afraid that the poor fellow has gone, his pay 