
was situated only about 1/2 a mile a head, a nice little carry. As usual the place was stinking & filthy like our previous homes. The ambulance bearers we relieved had real rotten luck,  just before leaving a shell landed right in the door of the tunnel killing two men & wounding three. It was partly their own fault,  instead of clearing out when relieved they would hang about the place yarning etc. & of course drew fire. We were kept fairly busy all day but living in the stuffy dugout was about the limit. Judging by the row during the night, Fritz must have attempted a counter attack.
29th Sept. 1917.No sign of any relief,  it will be a "god send" when it does arrive e,  it is rotten living in this dugout    Two extra squads arrived from our headquarters, the majority of them had just returned from leave to blight. Eric was with them, they went on to a further post. Kept fairly busy during the night & a few gas shells burst in the vicinity so had to don our gas helmets, had to carry a patient with one on which was a little awkward. Hugh Reid sprained his ankle so my squad was unable to proceed with 5 other squads of A. Sect. to the furthest posts at 9 a.m. the following morning. A very quiet morning, in the afternoon word came through that one of the chaps who went out to the furthest posts was completely done up.
I believe it is a very long carry. I went out to take his place, called at the next relay Post on the way which was about 3/4 of a mile away, passed Eric with a stretcher case. Arrived at my d3stination about 8 p.m. it was a beautiful moonlight night & exceptionally quiet. I did not like the quietness "calm before a storm" as was proved later on. The Aid Post was a "Pill Box" or one of Fritz's concrete dugouts in ---- which Fritz held only the day before. An English Regiment took over the section which our boys held & we were all looking forward to being relieved about midnight but unfortunately this was not to be. We bearers experienced hell (I cannot call it anything else) for the next 12 hours. Shortly after midnight Fritz made a counter attack, the noise was deafening & Fritz barrage - well words cannot describe what it was like. Shells were bursting in all direction all though the night, in fact till 12 o'clock the following day, this awful shelling went on. Fritz has got the range of every "Pill Box" & I state without one word of a lie, that some of these shells landed on the dugout, The place often shook & trembled,  I expected every