  
 to be held, on 4th July, American Indep. Day.   Our Unit was beaten by a very small margin & came second. I have a very soft job in the display being a patient. The events were great success. [The following appears in brackets & has then been crossed through.    At the side of this section in brackets there is a note in the margin "Copy from letter".] The next part is an account of the days events, I copied it out & sent it to you word for word, from my diary a few weeks back, if you will kindly attach it here I will be obliged.) (It starts like this - It has often been stated that the Australian is a poor Soldier, but a great fighter etc. etc.) 
 [The following is from the typed transcript : It has often been stated that the Australian is a poor soldier but a great fighter. It is evident that the originator of this quotation has never privileged to view a spectacle such as was witnessed yesterday (the 4th July American Independence Day) by members of our Division. Spend an afternoon with me & I shall show you the Australian as a trained soldier is second to none. We shall journey to the scene of a military tournament held by our Division as competitors in a section from our Ambulance.  If you had chanced to pass the site chose during the week proceeding the event a party of busy pioneers would have attracted your attention. They are engaged making the necessary preparations for the coming tournament. The arena is fenced off, trenches are dug, obstacles erected, bayonet targets constructed, & other structures all coming under the heading of preparations from the work of these pioneers. Every other detail of necessary preparation has been closely attended to competing units advised as to the times of their respective events, bands have been notified that their services will be required & numerous other arrangements all handled by a speciality selected staff, are complete. We learn that our particular event is last on the programme which means that we are free to review without interruptions,  the displays of our comrades in other branches of the service appearing earlier on the list. The historic day dawns & a dull cheerless morning results but the skies brighten as the hours pass until when the time for the first event arrives a more perfect day could not be desire. Having carefully dressed our little band is ready to move off to the scene of action,  here to be free until the time of our event. The arena is pitched on the outskirts of a small picturesque village rich in foliage & France is shown to us in all bits beauty. The surrounding country is a picture of grandeur.  The wonderful cultivation & agricultural properties of the land are illustrated by magnificent crops in all directions. We leave these glorious exhibition of natural beauty & take up a position to view a more stirring scene, for the picked infantry of the Division is about to give the first display of the programme. The movement is to be done separately by companies, a march round the ground & then forming up in the centre, a series of rifle exercises is to be gone through. A few sharp & commanding orders are given & the band striking up a popular march play the first competing company into the ring. With a swinging step they present a picture of glorious movement an effect which is acquired in marching by tireless training only. The whole company move round in faultless time with the music & draw rounds of applause from the admirers. Wheeling in perfect unison they now approach the saluting base where the judges with critical eyes anxiously wait to not the minutest of faults. The General taking the salute also stands at the base & admires the work done by the men serving under him. This machine like motion is continued whilst covering the remaining half of the ring & circling round in perfect order the company halt as one man in the centre of the enclosure. Here various rifle exercises are done with fixed bayonets & the effect gained from accurate timing is wonderful to watch.  Present arms & other movements are all performed in a manner which would be impossible to improve on. Other companies enter in their turn & carry out the same manoeuvers in what appears to the casual onlooker in equally faultless style. But the able judges every ready to pick out minor errors & faults have managed to separate them & the winning company is marched round the ground & treated to hearty applause which they will deserve. No dull moments are allowed to accumulate & smartly the bayonet fighters are brought in. they all succeed in getting through their work in a most business-like manner. The exhibition has been of a very high order all round & the judges must have experienced a great difficulty in arriving at a decision. Finally the winners are picked out & they retire justly full of pride. Closely following this highly interesting event a company take the field in shirt sleeves to give a display of physical drill. In a most perfect manner they go through their movements & retire to make room for a number of platoons, who are to give an exhibition of overcoming obstacles. Each in their turn go round the course & mount walls, cross ditches, scale embankments etc. s it it had been part of their daily routine for months. They are all dressed in full marching order. The next to attract attention were the A.S.C. who gave a brilliant  piece of work in which t6hey dismantled their wagons & reconstructed them in what appeared to be in record time.  The next to attract attention were the signallers & Field Ambulances, each gave an exhibition of their very useful & interesting work. The latter in a mimic battle collecting wounded in a very smart manner. Also an exhibition of stretcher drill. With these events ended a display of absolutely the highest order given solely by Australians. As will be learned from the above description of the work of the various units that there was little fault to find. The afternoon's programme conclusively proves that the Australian is a soldier on the parade ground as well as in the trenches.] 
 July 6th 1917. 7 miles route march before mid-day, in full marching order, just to keep us fit. 
 July 9th 1917. Leave to A --- spent a very pleasant day who should I meet but Jack Ellis. He is looking very well. 