  
 it was great fun, & they thoroughly enjoyed the stunt - well I fail to see where the fun came in. No sane man would call this fun or enjoyable. Just another paragraph - The Australians today are the theme of universal praise throughout our Army,  & it seems among the Germans as well. At any rate one young German officer said "What are we to do, we are only boys against these big brave Australians". Only boys!   Why the first time in the Line, here last month, the squad I was in carried 7 Fritz wounded troops & I guarantee without a word of a lie that everyone of them were over 6 feet high & rather heavy to carry. One would think that we were the only soldiers over here.   You very seldom hear the English Tommies mentioned. Who was it, at the beginning of the War, stopped the German Hordes from reaching Calais etc. that "Retreat from Mons" - remember only a handful - The Tommy troops - & they are still fighting well. I forgot to mention that on arriving back at the Unit yesterday I was surprised to see Dug Bryant & Will Macdonald who had both rejoined the Unit from Blighty. WillMacdonald was you remember wounded at B -  whilst coming out of the trenches with me. They are both looking O.K. These dugouts are really a filthy place to live in,  it is a wonder to me that we are not sick,  even resting here its a strain on the nerves, a Fritz often sends a few of his souvenirs over, just a little greeting as it were. Sgt. Mathieson was slightly wounded & returned to the Rest Camp. Fortunately the atmosphere quietened down & a small party of us went to Church & Holy Communion,  it was a most impressive service, especially after seeing numbers of men killed , scarcely 2 hours before the service commence. In the morning I attended the service again,  enjoyed the meeting immensely,  a few more of our bearers were sent away to hospital suffering from gas, Sgt. Roberts, Ptes Whitaker, Powell, Perry, Donovan, Briggs & Deed. I believe Powell, Whitaker Briggs & Roberts are in Blighty now,  the remainder got attended to at the Unit Rest Camp. 