  
 22nd October 17. Reveille 4:30 a.m. The bearers proceed once more towards the Lines to do over 4 days,  I sincerely hope that this will be our last time in, the strain on the nerves is too severe. I was very fortunate again,  was again posted at the Loading Post,  two squads were stationed here so we worked the first 48 hours in 8 hour shifts,  loading cars is an easier job than bearing - believe me. The two squads were the following - Charles Hall, Fred Wiggins, Ern. Musman & myself, - George Simister, Frank Woodward, Roy Loveday & Eric Finch, the majority of these fellows are all in that group I sent you last May so I thought it would interest you if I mentioned them. We were kept fairly busy for the two days,  plenty of local cases as Fritz was often shelling in our vicinity,  Pte. Shearer, Royal & Tickle passed through wounded. 
 24th October 17. Our turn to shift to one of the far posts so we get a move on at 7 a.m. & reported at our destination about half an hour later,  another pil ox this time. The mud was frightful,  there has been plenty of rain lately, the conditions in the front Line must be awful,  it is bad enough in the back area where roads are constructed & generally shelter can  be found from the weather, but in the front line there can be found from the weather, but in the front line there is no shelter,  the infantry deserve all the praise & honour, including the regimental bearers, in this struggle,  they certainly have the worst cop. We spent a most uncomfortable night, the eight of us cramped up in this small Pill Box, we could not even lie down, but its no use growling,  there are scores of chaps who have no shelter at all so we should consider ourselves lucky. I believe a welcome back for the bearers is being arranged at headquarters so surely this must be our last time in the line. Another casualty amongst the 8th, Pte. Eldon, but fortunately not serious. A beautiful moonlight night which means of course plenty of Fritz's planes about,  getting ranges & causing trouble etc etc. Shelling rather severe & we were kept fairly busy during the night,  towards morning we were able to snatch a little sleep. The next post to which we carried was having a very lively time,  in fact is was two lively for me, every time I arrived there with a stretcher case I did not loiter about, but did a gay for our Pill Box. An infantry squad helping at this Post, had suffered, one 