  
 11th October 17 to 17th October. Moved off towards the Line at 6:30 a.m. passed right through the ruined city,  words cannot describe the rack & ruin of the place,  it is jst one mass of debris. Fortunately our squad is posted at the loading post. We ill be here for 24 hours & will do our job in shifts, 4 hours on & 8 off,  a spell from bearing,  all we do is to load the cars. On the following day we moved further on to another relay post about 2 miles away. All the way was the ghastly scene of the greatest battlefield in the world.  Only those who have been here can form any idea of what the scene is like,  not even the best writers in the world can explain or make a picture of the landscape as it appears in reality. It was a most miserable day & it was rather difficult bearing in the mud, at times we sank almost to our knees,  48 hours we did at the latter post & we are relieved & I soon make a move to the rear of our lines. All the bearers were very disappointed on receiving the report that we would not report back to our Unit for our 48 hours spell (where we could obtain a hot bath & change of clothes & comfortable bed for the night) but would stop at some big dug- outs in ----   The place was stinking, filthy & damp. However we must make the best of a bad job & keep smiling. I heard that another ambulance, of another Division, was not far off our diggings so of course proceeded there immediately to to know that only half an hour before I arrived there Ralph Davidson passed through the Dressing Station, fortunately he was only slightly wounded. It was unfortunate that I missed him. In the evening I attended a service field in a ruined building,  it was one of the most impressive services that I have ever attended. 
 18th October 17. A nice little surprise sprung on us this morning,  gifts from the Australian Red Cross Comforts arrived including gloves & socks etc.  I also received a parcel from the Neutral Bay Rifle Club. About 10 o'clock I disappeared from our uncomfortable quarters & obtained a glorious hot bath & a clean change at a village about 2 miles away, I felt a anew man again. Turned in early as we will breakfast 