
the Coiffeur (Barbers) then strolled down Les Grand Boulevard. The most beautiful street in Paris.  It is said to be finest street in Europe. One would not think that the country was at war, the place was thronged with people & alive with taxies, the latter go along at "break neck speed" it was a wonder to me that accidents did not occur. The finest jewel of the Boulevard is the Opera Place, through which it goes. The Opera House is a magnificent building, & after the Louvre is the finest city monument in Paris. The architecture of the place is marvellous, the carvings & statues are very fine. We booked seats here for the Saturday's night performance Samson & Delilia.   This Opera House is the most famous in the World. We then visited a number of cafe's, just for a little appetiser, passing La Madeleine on the way, till we arrived at the Place de la Concorda. The former is a famous church, the foundation stone of which was laid by Louis XV. in 1764, the building was eventually opened in 1842.   It is entirely surrounded by pillars 45 feet high. On looking at these old & beautiful buildings one cannot help thinking how well Art was advanced during those days. The Place de la Concorde is the most beautiful public place in Paris (& I believe in the whole world).    In the middle stands a huge monument named Luksor Obelish two gigantic fountains & eight statues representing the chief cities of France, this complete the structure of this unique place, the sight of which leaves a great impression. The statue representing Lille & Strassburg are draped in black. The latter was captured in the Franco-Prussian war of 1870.  We then took a taxi & span along the Champs Elysses to Arch de Triomphe & returned via Petit Palais, & the Grand Palais.  The Avenue des Champs Elysses, resembles Rotton Row in Hyde Park, it runs through the Garden's of the Tuileries.   The end of which is the Triumphal Arch.   It was begun in 1806 it is 135 feet high & 132 feet in breadth. The carvings & sculptures are wonderful to behold.