  
 24th February 1918. Well, here we are up to the time of writing, & I am afraid that there is very little more to talk about, so of course will have to bring this edition to a close. Before doing so I would like to comment on a little subject that seems to be worrying a number of my friends in Sydney. During the last six months I have received quite a number of letters stating the writer would very much like to hear of me being promoted in rank etc. etc. I have stated on numerous occasions that I have absolutely no ambition to be promoted in the Army, if I just do my duty & do what I am told to do is enough for me. Censorship rules are very strict lately so will have to leave the rest to your own imagination. 
 Of course you might say - why don't you study some subject etc so that when I return I shall be able to continue on, in some occupation".    Well, to tell you the truth, I have tried to do this but had to give it up. This life gets a chap down, why, I can't put my mind on reading a book lately, so studying is out of the question. 
 The news in the papers lately, is not too bright but we must live in hopes, & pray for Victory for the Allies, & an every lasting Peace.  May this year see you all, give me a welcome Home. 
 [The following is from the typed transcript. 
 CHRISTMAS 1917. 
 Concert given by members of the 8th Australian Field Ambulance. 
 PROGRAMME. 
 1     Overture - The Orchestra 2     When Paderewski Plays - E. Payne 3     Youth - H. Overett 4     Duet - Cosier & Nathers 5     Comic Song - Smale 6     Hawaiian Butterfly - H. Douch 7     Flute Solo - Capt. Earnshaw 8     Laddies who fought & won - W. Orr 9     When you come home - E. Herford 10     Toora Lady - Trousdale 11     Where the Blackeyed Soosans Grow - Lieut. McFadyen 12     Duet (Wellerisms) - Payne & Gamble 13     Song -      F Williams 14     Violin Solo - C.A. Bender 15     You've go to do it - W. May 16     Down the Vale - N. Coxon 17     Yakka Hula - J.J. Kitson 18     Song -      Patterson 19     Sing Sing - W. Gamble 20     Duet - Atherton & May 21     Song - F. Williams 22     Finale - The Orchestra 
 GOD SAVE THE KING.] 
 