  
 nearer to home, & those whom we love. Apart from the A.M.C. there was only one chap on board I knew.   Roy McVey from Neutral Bay, we left Sydney together on board the "Beltana" in November 1915. The coast of Spain could be seen at 6 p.m. During the next seven days the weather was beautiful, it was a treat to see the sun for so long. The Y.M.C.A. & the Red Cross were again to the fore, - books, magazines, cigarettes, cards & drafts were available for the troops. A canteen was also opened. The A.M.C. had an easy time, a week out, at sea, & only a dozen patients in the hospital. It is to be hoped that the number will decrease. Most of us sleep in the hospital, which is equally as good as the 1st Class Saloon accommodation. A parade & inspection of the ship is held each day at 11 a.m..  A wireless message was received on Sunday the 4th of May, from General Birdwood - wishing all the troops on board, a pleasant & speedy journey home. That same evening a Divine Service was held on the main deck. 
 On Monday the 5th of May, I rose early & enjoyed the scenery as we approached the "Strait of Gibraltar".  The coast of Spain on our left, & Africa on the right. Being early morning, the cliffs on either side, appeared to be of a greenish colour, producing rather an inspiring effect.  The famous "Rock of Gibraltar" was approached at 7.30 a.m.. I noticed that it was very steep & barren looking, & I would not care to live in the place. The inhabitants of which are chiefly fisherman.  Of course during the War, the British had the place strongly garrisoned. What a prize this place would have been to Germany - the entrance to the Mediterranean. The weather was beautiful, & to sit on the top deck, with an interesting book, well! what else could a fellow wish for. 
 A Sports Committee was formed, & they certainly did well, as all kinds of sporting requisites were issued to the troops.  It was proposed to hold an Aquatic Carnival, on arriving at Port Said. A cricket match was held each afternoon, on the main deck, & dances held in the evenings in the same place. As there were only five Nurses on board, you can imagine that they did not have any trouble in securing partners. Educational Classes were also established, and every possible thing, is being done, to make the voyage a pleasant and interesting one. 