  
 flags & bunting, and huge quantities of greenery, adorned the walls. The audience was a large one, & they thoroughly enjoyed the programme provided. The evening opened with an overturn by the Orchestra, under the leadership of Dvr. Saunders. During the Grand March, which took place immediately after, the judges must have experienced great difficulty in picking out, the Prize winners, as there were a great number of cleverly thought out costumes present.  Fully 200 people were in fancy dress,& the effect caused by the different colouring etc. in the March was equisite. Two "Diggers" dressed "Gippos" gained the 1st Prize, & a special prize awarded to a soldier dressed as a "Ballet Girl". Some of the costumes were indeed very clever, including an Egyptian and his lady, the latter riding a donkey. A great number of the Mademoiselles were dressed as "Aussies". (Eric & I were in Pierrot costume). The Orchestra were all dressed as French Marines, and looked very smart. Supper was provided during the interval, and it was great to see the civilians having a good "tuck in," as they have had a rough spin, during the last four years. Immediately after supper two very fine Tableaus, were displayed, and were really splendid. The first represented Australia sending her sons to the War in 1914, & the second Australia welcoming her sons back from the war. Between the Tableaus Eric Herford sang the "Heroes of the Dardenelles", the audience singing the chorus heartily.  Major General Tivey said a few words, congratulating the committee for the splendid turn out, and especially Private Roberts, who organized the Tableaus.   Pte. Coxan was warmly congratulated on his appearance as Australia in the display. Col. McArthur Commanding Officer 29th Battalion, also made a few congratulatory remarks. The Ball went on to the early hours of the morning, and one of the finest evenings was spent since the boys left Australia. A dinner was held on the 8th February to bid Au Revoir to the men in the Ambulance, who are leaving in the next draft. The Dinner was laid in one of the rooms, of the village school, and the tables were artistically decorated with pot plants. The meal was a 