  
 men left Australia not later than the 9th of November 1915.  Just think of it, November men, I will surely be in the next draft, as there are not a very great number left in the Unit now. Rumour says that the next batch will leave about the 27th of the month.  You can just imagine how I feel about it, it is hard to realize that very shortly I will start on the journey for H.O.M.E.  What pleasant recollections does the latter bring back to the majority of us. I can picture the old "Braemar", with its fine rose garden, and those who are dear to me, waiting there to welcome me. In the near future this will all be in reality, and what a great day that will be.  I can smell the surf already, and when I see Sydney Heads again, and the red tiled roofs in the distance I am sure that I will be overjoyed. Eric & I will probably return on the same boat.] 
 This completes another Edition of my Diary, it is very brief & cannot be called a good one, as news is scarce at these times, & my only thought is  Australia & Home , and nothing else interests me. 
 L.W. Colley-Priest 
 [From typescript version: 
 8th Australian Field Ambulance. 
 1st February 1919. Plain & Fancy Dress Ball. "C" & "D" Coys. 29th battalion, & 8th Field Australian Field ambulance. 
 A most successful Plain & Fancy Dress Ball, organised by a combined committee from "C" & "D" Coys. 29th Battalion, & 8th Field Ambulance, was held in the hall at Sars Potieries on Saturday evening 1st February. 
 The building was gaily decorated with flags & bunting, & the huge quantities of greenery adorned the walls. The audience was a very large one, & they appreciated the programme provided. 
 The evening opened with an overture by the Orchestra under the leadership of Driver Saunders. During the Grand March which took place immediately after, the judges must have experienced great difficulty in picking out the Prize Winners, as there were a great number of cleverly thought out costumes present. Fully 200 were in fancy dress, & the effect caused by the different colouring etc. in the March was exquisite. 
 Two Diggers dressed as "Gippo's" gained the first prize, & a special prize was awarded to a soldier dressed as a "Ballet Girl". Some of the costumes were indeed clever including an Egyptian & his lady, the latter riding a donkey. A great number of the Mademoiselles were also in fancy costume, the majority of them were dressed as "Anzacs". 
 The Orchestra were all dressed as French Marines & looked very smart. Musical items were contributed to the programme, & were all appreciated. 
 Supper was provided during the interval. Immediately after the supper, two very fine Tableaux were displayed, & were really splendid. The first represented Australia sending her Sons to the war. Between the tableaux, Sergeant Herford sang the Hero's of the Dardanelles" & the audience singing the chorus very heartily. 
 Major General Tivey congratulated the committee for the splendid turn out, & especially Private Roberts who organised the Tableaux. Private Coxon was warmly congratulated on his appearance as Australia in the display. Col. McArthur C.O. of the 29th Battalion also made a few congratulatory remarks. 
 The ball went on to the early hours of the morning, & one of the finest evenings was spent since the boys left Australia. 
 L.W. Colley-Priest M.M. 8th Australian Field Ambulance.] 
 