
informed them that I was sailing for "Aussie" in two days time.
At 9 a.m. on the 29th inst. the "China" slowly glided away from the wharf, and at 12 a.m. the following day we arrived at the Docks at Devonport. Whilst passing Folkstone I could just see the cliffs of France on the horizon, & I thought of the vast number of Australians who lie buried, within its shores. The short trip was an uneventful one, although steaming down Plymouth Harbour was rather interesting, as numerous battleships of all sizes & descriptions were on either side of us. Our luck was in again, as leave was granted to go ashore, from 5 till midnight, of course I took the opportunity of visiting Plymouth. The latter is a fine city, and an enjoyable few hours were spent there.
At an early hour on the 1st May, the troops began to arrive, & shortly after dinner all were aboard. The total number of Officers & other ranks on board is 1077. Just before dusk the China slowly steamed away from the docks, and anchored near the entrance to Plymouth Harbour. The trip to the harbour was an interesting one, on each man of war or destroyer, or if only a training ship, the crew would stand to attention for a couple of seconds, and then give us three hearty cheers. The "Aussies" returned the compliment. What with the cheering, the boats sirens making a screeching noise, & the band playing on board the troopship, the trip was one that will never be forgotten.
At last at an early hour on the 2nd May, we started on our journey to Sydney, a distance of 12,473 miles.   Soon after leaving Plymouth, Eddystone Lighthouse was passed, & then the "fun" commenced.  We were greeted with a heavy sea, and very shortly the majority of the troops on board were "down & out to it". It was an unpleasant sight to see, so many men sea sick. Fortunately I attended all meals, although I did not feel "too clever". I kept moving about most of the day, on the top deck & wore the feeling off. At 5 p.m. the Bay of Biscay was entered & here the weather was not at all pleasant, & very few came along to tea. These conditions continued till about 3 p.m. the following day, & then the sun came out "in all its glory", & every one soon got well again. It was pleasant to sit on the top deck, & enjoy the sea breeze, & knowing that every day brings us