  
 15th Edition of Diary. 6-1-19. to 16th-4-19. To the Pater The last Edition, ended on the day that the first draft left the Unit to return to Australia (the 6th January 1919.)   Naturally after these fellows left a "gloom" seemed to hover over the Ambulance, for the next couple of days, and the days dragged by very slowly indeed. The date of the next drafts departure was postponed indefinitely, on account of the big strikes that were occurring in England, & of course this did not help to improve matters, amongst the Personnel. I omitted to mention the New Years Day sports in the 14th Edition, so will briefly comment on the sports here. 
 There was a large attendance of Officers and men at Sar Poteries to witness the 8th Brigade sports. The weather was mild, and the air rather chilly. It had rained the previous day and the ground was heavy, which slightly handicapped the competing athletes. During the day several horse & mule races were run, and many bookmakers were present on the course. There was plenty of betting & keen interest taken in each event.  Each Unit in the Brigade had previously been called upon to contribute money for drinks, & a good quantity of light beer, was at the disposal of the troops. Many had more than their share;  but this was for-seen, and Units provided limbers for the occasion, & these were used for carrying off the "helpless." 
 The 8th Brigade Band in charge of W.O. Wellings rendered delightful music during the afternoon. The Ambulance was successful in the mile, which was won easily by Pte. Maggs. A.D. & L/Cpl. Egan S.B. ran second in the 220 yards handicap. It was a very enjoyable day, and an excellent opening for the New Year. 
 Plenty of dances were held in the evenings, to pass away the weary hours, & on the 1st February 1919, a most successful Plain & Fancy Dress Ball, organized by a combined committee from C. & D. Coy's 29th Battalion & 8th Field Ambulance, was held in the hall at Sar Poteries. The building was gaily decorated with 