  
 the Southern Cross, & welcomed the appearance, as it told, of the near approach to home. The evening of the 16th inst. was a delightfully cool one, and boxing contests were held. A stop of two hours was made in the afternoon, as the boilers needed repairing. I thought there was something wrong, as we had only travelled 358 miles the last 24 hours. All waste foodstuffs were kept after dinner & dumped over board as soon as the boat stopped, & a rifle party were ready to shoot any sharks that came hovering round. Unfortunately, only one was seen, but owing to the excitement of the Rifle party firing too soon, the shark escaped without injury. From the 17th to the 21st, the heat was very great, & only those who have been through the tropics can form any idea of what it is like. The Island of Sokotra was passed on the 17th inst., in fact we were hugging its shores for three parts of the day. Very barren looking country, I would not care to live there. Quite a number of patients were admitted to the hospital, suffering from the heat, &  naturally the work of looking after them could not be called a pleasant one.  It was really an effort to do any-thing at all.  Sports were held on the 18th & 19th of the month, beginning at 2 p.m. each afternoon. The following events took place:- Cigarette race, sack race, three legged race, Egg & spoon race, obstacle race, tub fishing, pillow fight & tug of war.  Naturally there was not much room on deck for this kind of enjoyment & a great number of the competitors visited the hospital during the evenings. The chaps on duty in the Dressing Room, were kept hard at it, bandaging up sprains etc. etc.. 
 Each evening the band has given a delightful concert on the Aft Deck, & they deserve great praise, as giving performances during such oppressive weather is rather an unpleasant job. 
 At 4 a.m. on the 22nd inst. we entered Colombo Harbour, the lights of the boats scattered about, produced a pretty sight, & as day broke, the scenery was magnificent. The coaling of the boat started about 7 a.m. & I noticed that the niggers were a much cleaner race than the Egyptian natives.  He seemed to command more respect, & none of the skylarking which took place at Port Said was repeated. The heat became more severe as the boat stopped moving, & it was a great relief to all when leave was granted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. 