Here too is the home of the European residences. They are fine buildings in spacious grounds surrounded with typical native vegetation. There are a few hotels of high repute ie Galle Face, Bristol, G.O.H. of these the first is the most sumptuous standing in very spacious beautiful grounds facing the sea. From that place to the town there is a fine esplanade running along the beach. Just previously a riot had occurred among the natives a "town guard" of Englishmen had been installed while there the men were inspected. Among the shipping in the Harbour there are always several river boats which are used to quell riots inland. When the "Emden" was running rife a big congregation of shipping had accumulated in the harbour as a result of the Sydneys? victory, was released. For this the Australian cruiser had gained a great reputation among the natives. English troops disembark.
That night we left Colombo for Bombay the next morning found us off the coast of Western India. The scenery was grand. The sea was like glass and the coast is backed by the range of the Western Ghats. The slopes are covered with very rich tropical vegetation every mile or so great high peaks tower up in to the clouds. To add to the scene two gunboats were between us the shore. In places the water is very muddy showing the affluence of large rivers the sea. 
Oct 24 At midday on Oct 24th Bombay appeared in the distance is even more typically Indian than Colombo with its numerous minarets towers backed by the high hills of the mainland. The boats have to anchor out the passengers conveyed to shore by tender. Cargo is loaded as at Colombo coaling is done by basket and among the workers a few women are noticeable. The city itself is on an island the mainland is very hilly in fact grand, covered with typical vegetation. Apparently the City has many fine buildings the commerce must be great as there are many large boats always in the bay. Being so hilly the place is sheltered from winds is very hot. No leave was granted here to any of the Oct 25 troops but the next day a number of men commandeered the tender ?Begum?, took charge piloted worked the boat to shore themselves. That afternoon we left Bombay leaving behind two men who had failed to catch the tender back to the boat on the morning of the 30th we anchored off Aden. Oct 30 There is absolutely no town here but only the houses quarters of the garrison troops necessary businesses for their convenience.