  
 not permit of our resting (I was going to say sleeping) in any other position. Only one could enter or depart at a time. The "room" was about six feet long, including the width of the entrance "hall", through which the bitter wind and frozen atmosphere found it's way much to our discomforture. There being no room to turn round, our only mode of exit was to riggle ourselves out feet first. This "room" was also our eating house, one would crawl in with his food and the other would pass his as far as possible, the one inside taking it from him, when sufficiently near, and then would rest on an elbow, facing each other, wirh our backs pressed against the muddy walls and enjoy our banquet. Oh! 'twas a wonderful life. 
     The cook-house was about a hundred yards from our dug-out, the result being that by the time we arrived and crawled in, the tea and whatever eatables were - at the time of leaving the cook-house - hot - were icy cold. Sometimes of course, by the time we arrived at our domicile, very little of anything remained in our "dixies", owing to the rough and slippery nature of the ground, and the agility which was necessary to dodge the falling shells, to say nothing of the feats required to cross extra deep holes by means of a narrow, and "rickety" plank, which was covered in ice. 
     We were about midway between Delville Wood and (what a few months previously had been a flourishing country town) Flers. This place baffles description, I don't think there was a wall of any building remaining more than a few feet high. Furniture, bricks, bedding, machinery, all scattered about in what at one time were streets, now only so many huge holes. A few cellars remained which were occupied by the A.M.C. and Red Cross units. Many of our 18 pounders were here, and how Fritz used to shell it, all day and night he gave the gunners no rest, and yet he never succeeded in quietening those splendid guns. The more "he" shelled, the oftener they "barked". A very "hot" place Flers was. 
     I never imagined that rats could attain such a size, as those I saw here. Big as cats, well-fed and well-nourished, and they never appeared in 