
fellows who were remaining to look after the things left behind, until we should return and collect them on our having completed our "engagements" at the front. (Only some came back for their belongings, many weeks later.) We are handed another rug each, so that the saving of weight was really infinitesmal.
    On the 6th January '17 we leave Buire and continue to go forward for a further eight miles to a proper military camp. The roar of the big guns is now quite distinct, and the sound of the smaller "pieces" can be plainly heard. I wonder if this noise continues all day and night. However I very soon cease to wonder. We arrive at dusk at the camp                                       FRIECOURT. 
     In this camp are very decent huts, and the arrangements generally are very satisfactory. We are ordered to sew canvas over our steel helmets. (I suppose the reason is that they either will not shine in the sun then, or the bullets will not "glide off". It surely couldn't be the former reason, as we had hadly seen the sun since our arrival in France.
    I had not been formally introduced to one of our greatest "worries" until I arrived here. One afternoon, we did no drill, but were told to clean our rifles and bayonets, and get all our gear in good order. When this was completed several fellows proceeded to "strip off", and then and not till then did I become acquainted to the cause of the awful irritation on my body.
    I watched the other fellows for a time and then "followed suit". What was my disgust to find hundreds of vermin in my clothing, my skin was "raw" in places where I had scratched. These vermin were "chats" (a kind of lice), from which we suffered during the whole time we were in France and Belgium. They made our life a misery. No matter how often we "chatted", some eggs or juvenile "chats" remained. There appeared to be nothing that they objected to in the way of insect powders, oils or anything that had been invented for the destruction of vermin generally. On the contrary, the more we 