  
 and asked the officer if he could direct him to his battalion, the officer replied that he was not quite sure, but thought he had better continue on the way he was travelling, for "if you don't find you battalion, old chap, you will do us a good turn by diverting the attention of the "snipers" from us". I have often wondered how that chap got on and if he ever found his battalion. 
     It was ever the same, whenever you returned from "leave" it was a case of travel all over the place looking for your unit. No one ever knew just where they were situated, but they nearly always seemed to be "in the line". then you had to "run the gauntlet" to find them, same as instanced above. 
     I used to say to myself every night, "Safe through another day wonder if I shall wake up tomorrow", or will there be no tomorrow for me. 
                          CHAPTER XVII 
                        A FIELD HOSPITAL . 
     On the way to Flers were several bodies of mules and horses, and here and there a "Fritz". One of the latter had "rested" very close to the track we took, for a long time. We got quite fond of him, and used to speak to him as we passed by, he seemed so lonely, his friends were scattered about right away from him, even his head was fully twenty yards away. He was very dead and frozen hard. I caught hold of his leg one day to turn him over, thinking he might be tired of remaining so long in the same position, when to my surprise his leg snapped off at the hip. I left him alone after that. 
     I had a very sore throat once and of course went on "sick parade". The chap in front of me was limping badly, his ankle being very much swollen. In reply to the doctor's question as to what was the matter with him, he said that he had sprained his ankle. The doctor said "how the devil do you know it is sprained". This made me think a bit. In reply to his question as to my special ailment, I said, "I think my throat is sore, sir". "But surely you know if your throat is sore or not, don't you?" I replied, "No sir! I am not 
   
   