
remember I am a selfish man), ran through my mind, but this was no time to think, action was required now.
"ADVANCE", - we were at once electrified into action.  We sprang to our feet, and at first walked, gradually increasing our pace to a "double"  We had not gone very far when to our surprise and alarm a further order was shouted out, RETIRE!
Retire! what did it mean?  Had we failed?  Were we being driven back instead of going forward?  No! it is only that we have either started a moment or two too soon or advanced too quickly.
We lie down again and wait a few seconds only, then up again and forward, but already the lines have started to thin, a few have fallen.  The machine-gun fire that we meet is terrible.  Comrades are falling fast all round us, I stop to see if I can help one, but he is already beyond my help.
We stop and lie down for about a minute, while the barrage moves forward the prescribed twenty-five yards, then up again.  I feel a sharp sting on the top lip.  I am hit.  I rush madly on with my head as far into my steel helmet as possible.  (How absurdly small the helmet seems now, but how ridiculously large and clumsy they appeared when we first received them.)
I hear a voice shouting "Gill! you're on fire".  I look down and to my indescribable horror I discover that a bullet has exploded the cartridges in the bandolier, setting fire to my tunic on the left side.  My alarm was intensified by the knowledge that in the pocket of the tunic were bombs.  As both my hands were engaged, I simply fell down and rolled in the mud, and thus extinguished the fire.  It gave me a very unpleasant feeling through.  (On looking at the bandolier later I found that five of the cartridges had been practically cut through by a bullet passing through them.  A pretty near go for me.  I still have the remains of the bandolier and cartridges).
We still continued our twenty-five rushes, men falling all the time, - (some would suddenly throw up their hands and fall - and others would just sink slowly down on the ground - Oh! 'twas a terrible thing that
 