  
 listening post, and things go on much the same as before, until about midnight we hear voices very close to us, and when a "flare" goes up we see some men approaching our position.  Two of us prepare to defend ourselves while the third gets ready to crawl to our lines and report.  I had been wondering if it would be possible for me to go through another night, and I now decided that it was only a matter of minutes before I should "pass out".  The men got nearer and nearer till they were just above us on the edge of the shell-hole, then to our amazement we realise that they are our own men, and what is better still, they have come to relieve us. 
 We waste very little time in explaining the duties and then crawl back to our lines.  I thank God that job is over for a time anyway. 
 CHAPTER XXV11. 
  AGAIN - WE MOVE "BACK" . 
 About an hour later we are marching away from our rotten experiences and are informed that we are now really going out for a decent "spell".  This puts more spring into our step and we feel that really it is not too bad after all.  We always feel like that when we are going "back".  The misery is very soon forgotten. 
 What a wretched place the world would be if there was nothing to look forward to, no future, no castles to build.  We all do the latter.  The "money grabber" in his "castle", sees a way of amassing greater wealth, and doesn't care a hang who suffers in the process.  His one idea, his one "castle" is to make more money.  His only enjoyment in life is money-making.  He does not enjoy what money brings.  He does not spend his wealth by helping others, unless it benifits him materially.  If he does an apparently kind action, or helps anyone in distress, or gives to charities, or entertains, it is always for some reason or motive. You can bet your life that he will benifit by such actions.  It will bring "grist to his mill".  He will use anything or anyone as a stepping stone to acquire his end. 
 The poorer man is very different.  His object in life is to endeav- 