  
 procurable in England. 
 We are"sorted" out into our different Divisions and told at what time our individual trains start, and are then left alone until the time arrives for us to "entrain" for our destination, or as near as it is considered advisable for the train to convey us. 
 The journey is invariably very slow, but none the less exciting on that account.  As usual we stop a lot and move forward a little.  It is not usual for the enemy to meet us when nearing the war zone, and his welcome is administered by attempting to drop bombs on us from a great height, if it is daylight.  The result is that the driver considers it advisable to stop the train for a while to enable the "passengers" - who are in his charge - to seek safety in flight, and we go "some" too until we think all the "eggs" have been dropped. 
 When we have arrived as far as the train is prepared to take us, our troubles begin.  We endeavour to discover the whereabouts of our respective battalions or units.  We are informed by someone that our battalion is at such and such a place, to arrive there and find it moved elsewhere a couple of days ago, but exactly where, noone [no-one?] appears to know.  So we still plod on and continue the hunt for days, all the time having visions of being "crimed" for being Absent Without Leave.  We eventually will find the unit we have been chasing for days, - suffering from hunger and fatigue in the meanwhile - somewhere in the locality where we started from, then we have to go through the business of explaining our delay.  Oh! 'twas a wonderful show. 
 Of course I was hoping that I should find my crowd at the same place I had left them but was doomed to disappointment.  After wandering about for a few days was informed that they were expected to arrive from the front in a day or so and were going to remain at a town a few miles from where I now was for a few days, so I hastened on to the town mentioned and found the house in which was going to be our office and sleeping quarters, during our short stay in 