  
 clothes, and in fact having a real good time generally.  This vision as others failed to materialise. 
 At the time appointed I was ready with my pack and belongings, and after bidding farewell to my friends jumped on the lorry and started for the town which I had left only a short while ago.  Arrived during the evening and was shown into a shed, and told to report to the office the following morning.  Did not appreciate my first introductions, thought that I should have a nice bed with sheets on, but found that I still had to carry on with the same old "chatty" rug as before.  However I sleep and dream that I have finished with "roughing it", and am safe from "his" shells and bombs, and that I am gradually but surely forging my way to the top of the tree.  Had visions of stars on my shoulders, and in fact of becoming a real staff officer who can ride about in motor cars and have real good times at the expense of the country which I represent, and give orders that must at once be obeyed, and be saluted, and swank about as if the success of our united armies depended solely on my capabilities.(I was a lame corporal you must remember, and that is an office of some distinction!!!) 
 The French people I understand are and always have been noted for their artistic gifts, the home of art they say is Paris.  Well! having heard this I decided while in Amiens to have my photo taken.  I wanted a good one to send home.  I sat for that photo, and paid for it too (before I saw it, fool that I was).  I received the finished articles about ten days later.  The picture was supposed to represent me.  It may have but I did not think so.  I did not send any home or to any friend of mine.  Had I sent one of these "artistic" photographs of myself home, either one of three things must have happened.  Either my wife would at once have cabled the authorities for my immediate release from active service, or at once put the law in action to enable her to procure a divorce, or failing that she would probably have packed up and taken the two girls with her to some remote part of the earth where it would be impossible for me to find her.  They say the camera never lies 