  
 which we should start our attack. It would be about two o'clock when we reached this spot. A white tape had been laid a few hours earlier as an indication to our officers that this was the position for the first "wave" to "jump off" from at the time appointed. 
 We were then shown our alotted places, and ordered to lie down, and make no noise. Between each man was a space of about six to eight feet. There were three lines (or waves to give the military term). The second line of men were placed about fifteen feet behind the front line, and took up positions immediately behind the centre of the vacant space of the front line. The third line behind the second and occupying like positions. My place was sixth on the left of the front or first "wave".  
 We were all pretty warm after our march, but after lying down on the cold earth, in a very few minutes became terribly cold. We dare not roll about much or kick our feet against the earth, on account of the sound being carried to the enemy . We just had to lie there in agony till the time should arrive for the "barrage" to open, then the noise of the guns would "drown" our endeavours to produce warmth. But we had a long time to wait yet.  
 The time arranged for the opening of the barrage, was fixed for about five a.m. so that we had plenty of time in which to study the country in our immediate front. After a time our eyes became accustomed to the darkness, and we could manage to discern objects in the near distance, and the general outline of the country over which in a few hours (a very, very few), we (or some of us) would pass.  
 Away on our left front appeared what looked like a village, and clumps of trees, while directly in front was level open country devoid of timber, with the exception of a small bush here and there. We would whisper "good luck" to the fellows round about us. We were all pals now, any little diferences we had had, were forgotten.  
 As before stated, the barrage would"open" at about 5.a.m. and would continue for a certain number of minutes at the same distance, and  