
trench, and a pretty good issue I gave them too.
The machine-gunners had made the positions for themselves outside the portion we occupied.  It is not possible to chronicle the splendid work done by these.
It will be very hard for some of you to imagine what it would be like to be lying down in cold mud for many hours, straining your eyes watching for any movement of the enemy, bullets flying past and near you the whole time, and shells bursting all around, and not knowing what moment your turn may come to render your final account.
The issuing of rum under these circumstances was most perilous (for the precious liquid).  Time and again I would slip on climbing the side of the sunken road to give the man on watch their supply, and along the bottom of the trench I would fall in shell holes which were hidden by the mud and slush, to say nothing of dodging bullets and bursting shells.
After completion of this duty I returned as instructed to our new Commanding Officer who insisting on me remaining in his dug-out and partaking of some hot tea which he had just brewed.  The hot tea together with a further sip of rum, made me look on the whole business with a brighter view.  It was astonishing at these times what an effect a little rum would produce.  Everything looked black, but a small portion of this liquid would alter the complete aspect.  I remember reading somewhere that "wine"maketh glad the heart of man".  I concur.
Cold, wet through to the skin, and absolutely covered with mud, I glanced at the Captain's watch.  It was a few minutes past midnight.  To-day was the 3rd of April.  I had completed my first twelve months soldiering.  I had been in a "stunt".  Twelve months ago to-day I entered camp to be trained for a soldier, and here I am twelve months later, after taking part in a brilliant charge, in the British front line trenches.  I had been lucky, so far.  I had assisted in doing a little bit towards beating the enemy, and had only had a bit of skin removed from my upper lip.  I was content.