
had now given up hope of the "show" ever finishing, it seemed to me to be one of these "non-stop" arrangements, which had been thrown on the world - as it were - as a means of thinning out the menfolk, and thus paving the way for woman governments in place of men.  It might be that some unseen power was behind the whole thing and that he was disgusted at what a mess men had made of things, so had decided to institute a wholesale slaughter of man, thereby giving the women a chance to see what they are made of, as regards the management of the world generally.  We have read that things move in a mysterious way.
It makes one think what would have happened if women had been in authority during this war.  I venture to say, that things would have been very different in many respects.  I don't mean to infer that the actual fighting part of the business was a failure, but in the administrative departments, such as the accountancy branches, clothing stores, commiserariat, and in fact all the necessary branches which are required for the prosecution of a war of such magnitude.
I can picture these women in close and sensible discussions deciding on the personnel of the various departments.  For instance:- In the paybook and accountant and audit sections, they would have men only who were acquainted with that class of work, and so on.  They would not think of putting a bricklayer in charge of paybooks, or audit work.  Had this been done in the early days, how much might have been saved, and greater satisfaction given.
Two positions have always, since my acquaintance with A.I.F. methods, set me wondering, and those are the doctors and dentists.  How it was that they occupied positions similar to their civilian occupation is beyond my comprehension.  They are the only two positions that spoil the whole lot, they are the only two that are not [not is a handwritten amendment] relegated to some position for which they are most unsuited and for which they have got not [not is a handwritten amendment] the slightest knowledge.  It has puzzled me greatly.  Why these two glaring exceptions to the general rule of