  
 ressing a staff officer".  The other clerk "sprang" to attention and "clicked" his heels together.  I stuffed half the blanket in my mouth to stifle my laugh, at the sight of the other clerk, standing to attention, with nothing on but a short shirt.  He dare not even wait to put his breeches on.  Poor old Adam must have looked something like that when the fair Eve made his first garment, but doubtless added to the length thereof when the windy weather arrived, as I don't think trousers were in fashion then.  And I should imagine that the clothing of both must have been substituted for other material than "leaves" during the season of "autumn". 
 Judging by the "quantity" of some girls which is visible, one can almost imagine that e [we?] are returning gradually to the good times of the "garden", and that we shall have to look round for some new kind of leaf, as the ones used in those days will be considered out of fashion, and too cumbersome, for every day wear.  There are some very pretty silver leaves in Africa somewhere which might be put to some such use.  I'm sure it only needs someone to introduce the idea and supply some of the fashion paper proprieters [proprietors?] with"patterns" of the latest summer costume, "as supplied by nature, and the "craze" would take on at once.  As things are now, the blouses get lower as the skirts get shorter.  Personally I like them so, and am keenly interested as to what the next move will be.  I keep my eyes well open, expectant, yet wondering, what portion of feminine beauty will next be exposed to the public gaze.  It seems to me that very soon the poor chap who decides to get married will see very little more of his wife than is seen by anyone in the streets.  It's such a pity too, to see their beautiful skin become discolored by the sun and weather.  I'm not a"wowser", ye gods! far very far from it.  Personally the lower the blouse and the higher the skirt, the better I like it, and the more I see.  I never had and I trust I never shall see too much of the fair sex.  Personally I think a well-made girl never looks so well and could certainly not look much better than when clothed in a well-fitting, pale pink (for a fair girl) bathing costume.  Let us get rid of all this mock modesty, and don't  