  
 CHAPTER XXXV. 
  SOME QUICK MOVE . 
 We leave here in lorries early one morning, snowing heavily and ice everywhere.  Travelling is pretty exciting, owing to the slipperiness of the roads.  If a road happens to be at all on the slope, the driver finds it pretty hard to keep the lorry in the centre, but all goes well until about 9.p.m. when suddenly the lorry seems to show an inclination to lie down, and before we know where we are, the baggage and "stuff" we are lying on rolls over the top of us, and to our dismay the lorry rolls over on its side.  We all get out and find that the poor old thing had slipped off the road into a ditch, and all our efforts to move it are fruitless.  We walk on for a mile or so and come to a small village, in which there is a cafe, we have a cup of coffee and find the place is named AUTILLE.  There are five of us all told. 
 We find that we can procure some rooms at a farm house near by. (The resident of this house was a wine merchant who had left Lille - a fine old chap - but had managed to bring a good supply of "Cider" away with him.  We had a glass each every morning on rising?, and make arrangements with the cafe people  yo supply us with all  to cook & prepare our meals, the materials for which we supply. 
 It is impossible to move the lorry so we simply have to wait until some help arrives.  As our rations are pretty low two of the party walk to Doullens, which is about a couple of miles away, and bring back any amount of stuff, which they place in a large case and then attach a rope to same and drag it along the slippery road back to Autille.  There is great excitement at the arrival of so much, and we waste no time in unpacking. 
 The woman and her daughter (aged about eighteen) are greatly interested in the performance, and get very excited as the various things are brought to light.  Great joints of beef, mutton, bacon, large packets of tea, bag of sugar, oatmeal, in fact enough to start a young grocery establishment, everything was there even down to pepper and mustard.  It had all been supplied by an Aussie "dump", and there was no hesitation when our position was 