
memory of that visit for many days.  These fair friends would hand us their cards on departure, so that we should know where to go if at any future time we decided to come that way again.
I spent my first visit there having a general look round the city, and a treat it was to feel that just for one day I could please myself how I spent my time.
The cathedral is of course the centre of attraction, as regards architectural beauty.  An enormous structure, dwarfing into insignificance all the surrounding buildings.  Beautiful is too modest a term, it is exquisite.  One could spend a day or so enjoying the external designs.  The interior at once impresses you as the most grand and gorgeous amalgamation of coloring and solemnity possible to imagine.  I have seen many cathedrals in France and Belgium, and the churches generally of the former are noted for their beauty.  But I have never seen anything to compare with the cathedral of Amiens, Notre Dame, and many other big churches in Paris stand out largely in my memory, but for size, height, architectural design, carvings, paintings, and everything of the beautiful, the cathedral at Amiens stands unique and alone.
One of my hobbies has always been to visit churches (oh no! not to attend service, I'm afraid I look on that portion of the thing as purely a business).  I can spend hours looking over the old places.  I never had much of a liking for collecting stamps, or butterflies, or flowers, or things like that.  My wishes have almost always been for the impossible.  Now! had it been possible I believe that I should have by now travelled all over the world, and chartered many ships to bring to my home the result of my searches.  Yes! where others are spending money and time collecting butterflies and stamps, I should be collecting churches.  I can picture myself with hundreds of acres of land covered in and all kinds of churches therein labelled and numbered, from St.Pauls down to the little wooden church in the bush.  No! models would not do me, I want the real things.
Tombstones are another thing I rather at one time set my mind on,