  
 on that memorable morning.  Although we are fagged-out our spirits rise with each step we take, thinking in our ignorance that we are moving right back for a rest, and we imagine that in a day or so we shall be away from this awe-inspiring locality, and comparatively safe from the enemy shell-fire.   What a miserable, dirty and wet mob we are.  We keep together as best we can, up banks down slopes, sliding and falling, the "fours" sometimes numbering five, sometimes three, we still move on, successfully dodging shells, but the exertion required tends to add to our fatigue.  A half is called.  We "flop" down in the mud for a few minutes.  On starting off once more, to our surprise in the distance we hear the unmistakable sound of an enemy aeroplane, it comes nearer and nearer in the darkness, until it is almost overhead.  It is flying very low.  Then to add to our misery and already overtried nerves, he starts blazing away at us with his machine-gun.  Can he see us? or is he firing at random?  Luckily very few are hit.  I find myself with some others starting to lag behind, among whom is a fellow whom we all call "Darkie", he it was who remained by the brazier on the eventful afternoon of April 1st., but his joking and his fun are now conspicuous by their absence.  He was like me absolutely "done".  We proceed together every few yards falling down in the awful slush, to rest.  Shells fall round us and we almost wish that one would put us out of our misery.  Our limbs ached and our legs refused to carry the weight more than a few paces at a time.  We feel that the utmost limit is reached, but we struggle on and eventually arrive back at Vauxl.  In the darkness we pass our billets which apparently still remain intact.  On down the road in the village which leads to the ruined sugar refinery.  This road is now one mass of shell-holes full of water, we wade through it stumbling and falling until we arrive at what we imagine to be some kind of temporary shed.  We lean against this for a short spell, the water and mud is well above our knees.  We had been resting here for about two minutes, when a most appalling explosion takes place accompanied by a hugh flame.  In our terrible plight we fall in the mud.  We had been leaning against the camouflage surrounding one of our guns.  We endeavour to hasten our 