
I do not think (in fact I'm quite sure) that on any occasion during rifle inspection was I complimented by the officer on having mine cleaner or in better condition than any other, in fact the reverse was invariably the rule.  The Officer inspecting would ask the usual question as to when I had last cleaned my rifle.  The reply was immaterial.  I always had to give it further attention and return to him for a separate and special inspection.  It was the bane of my existence.  Some fellows spent the greater part of their spare time cleaning, polishing and oiling their "best friend" until they fairly got on my nerves.  I was quite content so long as the "bolt" would work and the barrel was sufficiently clear for the bullet to pass through.
One chap, a special friend of mine took as much care of his rifle as a young mother could of her new and adored offspring.  If we were away for half an hour from our billet. he would seem to be absent-minded, and on return would rush straight over to his blessed rifle, looking down the barrel, taking out the magazine, working the bolt and removing any speck of dust there-from.  His one sole hobby seemed to be the cleanliness of his rifle.  This friend of mine found his rifle after all of no value to him.  He fell shot through the head among the first.  He paid the extreme penalty on the 2nd. April '17.
There was one very good point about my rifle.  I never lost it.  No-one ever took my rifle intentionally or in error, knowing full well that on inspection he would strike trouble.
The same thing applies to umbrellas.  A very poor one you won't lose.  Put a good one down anywhere for two minutes, and you will wish you'd bought a cheaper one.  The good one suddenly vanishes, and you see it not again.
So it was with my rifle.  I could always depend on finding it in the place I had left it.  In fact the very outward appearance was quite sufficient to ensure it's safety.  Anyone approaching my rifle would never pick it up in mistake for his, he would just say "Oh! that must be Gill's".  When on rare occasions, I was discovered in the act of cleaning it, fellows