  
 smaller of the two (which would inevitably be myself) being unceremoniously ejected from my few inches of sleeping space, and spending the balance of the night in the unsympathetic and cruel world outside,-or the fellow next you would be dreaming of his girl and start embracing you and showering kisses on your face ,  and he would blame you when he awoke for not being his lady-love - or perhaps a rifle or two would fall on your head from their resting place, which would succeed in banishing sleep for the remainder of the night, and all the other fellows would blame you for causing the rifles to fall, of course so likely.  Men are sometimes so very unreasonable in cases like that.  They don't like their slumbers disturbed.  Goodness knows how they will "carry on" when they are married and the children need putting to sleep in the good old-fashioned way, by "fond father" pacing the floor.  So you can readily understand how I disliked the close atmosphere of a shed.  Draughty, yes, but it did not have the advantages!! of the tent.  It could not blow down, no rifles were there, and we each had more room to stretch ourselves out.  The whole surroundings were altogether more peaceful but I'm afraid I did not appreciate it as I should have.  Then again here the meals were served up on a plate and a table was supplied for us to sit at.  I had been in the habit of fetching my own stuff from the cook-house, a fair distance away, carrying a piece of bacon in my fingers and a mug of tea and sitting in the tent or outside and enjoying it in the open, without having a serviette either.  Oh, yes! 'twas a great life.  No swank with tables or chairs, and silver-ware.  But now all that was changed, I should say nearly all, my rug I still retained as also did the chats show their affection for me by refusing to leave me in my altered circumstances on the contrary they seemed to cling the tighter to me.  I needed no physical jerks to keep me "fit", while they were about me.  They kept me continuously on the move, while they on their part remained almost stationery.  They had two or three portions of my anatomy which they considered more delicate and tender then [than?] the rest, and refused to be moved therefrom. 
 It was while here that I was introduced to a fellow by the name of 