  
 ly well aware that he had "had" them but that he would never "have" them again.  These two chaps then went to some egg and chip "joint" and had a decent feed. 
 We were all supposed to be well away from the city by 8 p.m., and about a mile from same was a barrier, on the main road with two men on guard who were supposed to take the names of all those who passed through after a certain time. 
 As there were no trains which would get us back to our billetting area at a convenient time, we had to get home as best we could, some would walk the distance, (that is of course if not too - well! - tired, or otherwise overcome by the day's excitement.  Sometimes some would fall by the wayside and rest till the following morning) others would wait for a passing vehicle, and chance a "lift" for a portion of the way.  Some of course would not return that night, they had been lucky in discovering a comfortable and well-hidden position, thanks no doubt to one of the lady friends. 
 The military police were continuously stopping us to see our "pass", and it went pretty badly with the poor chap who failed to produce one. 
 To carry alcoholic beverages of any description from the town was strictly forbidden (I mean apart from what was already in your system) but the wideness and looseness and roominess generally of the average riding breeches, we found of great advantage as a pretty safe - if somewhat uncomfortable - means of conveyance. 
 While in Buire I decided I would at last have my teeth - or rather lack of teeth - attended to.  In the earlier part of my story I told you that I had on two occasions been refused permission to go to France on account of having - in the doctor's opinion - not a sufficient number of molars, and how I had eventually - after having two more extracted - was passed as "fit" to go.  I had been able to carry on so far anyway fairly well, but thought this a good opportunity to have things fixed up a bit. 
 I report to the "dental" officer, who after nearly choking me with 