  
 Everyone as "mud"  as  compared with this officer.  I mention this incident as the visit of this "staff officer" played a very big part in my future life in the A.I.F.  This day was destined to in many ways improve my army existence, but did not by so doing necessarily reduce the risks of losing my personal existence altogether. 
 This staff officer became my "boss" from this day, and for a greater combination of all the ingredients in the formation of man it would be impossible to find.  A gentleman yet a "pig".  Ability, cleverness, artistic to a degree, a musician of no mean order, a sportsman, - a linguist successful writer, a fine-looking, athletic, well-set up man, and a decided favorite with the fair sex.  This is the man who occupied that "staff" car and issued that order to the lorrie driver, in a tone which demanded instant compliance with his wishes, or failing would result in trouble for the driver. 
 I am getting a little ahead so will return to the scene as depicted.  After my having partaken of a "mug" of ale at the canteen I returned to the camp to have a rest before the duties of the afternoon, and was lying down in the tent when the orderly sergeant told me that I was to at once report to the major in charge of the camp.  On doing so he informed me that the A.P.M. had arrived and [w]as looking for a capable clerk, for temporary employment in his office.  Would I care for the job? 
 I was duly "paraded" before the staff officer already mentioned, (and although I did not altogether fancy his domineering style and over-bearing manner, thought that with a little tact and strategy I might be able to hold my own with him), he after satisfying himself that I might suit him, and remarking that I appeared to be fairly well educated ( it seemed to surprise him that a "digger" could be educated.  How often have the diggers noticed the lack of education in some of the officers), he ordered me to be ready at 2 o'clock that day and proceed to Bailleul in a lorry which was leaving the camp at that time. 
 I had visions of always having a comfortable bed, and   good clean 