
but it was suggested that the relations of the departed might object to their removal, and would certainly not feel disposed to pay to look over my collection.  So churches and tombstones as a "collection" hobby are impossible to me.  But how grand it would be to have crowds calling and paying their sixpences to see a certain church or a dear friends tombstone.  "St. Peters Church, Highgate"?  "Yes! certainly, Mr. Jones just show this lady, St.Peters Church Highgate, please".  Would it not be grand, but what's the use of thinking of it.
Girls would make a very interesting and instructive collection, but it would mean that a [a is a handwritten insertion] special guard would be required to watch over them, this hobby did strike me at one time, until I found one, and before I had time to add to my collection, discovered that she occupied the whole of my time.  So I have to study other specimens only at rare intervals during my absence from home.  They are a wonderful and all-absorbing study.  So many different varieties.
A visit to Amiens almost always meant a change of diet.  The restaurants were good and clean, but the menus were at times most puzzling.  It would be hard indeed to discover the ingredients which were contained in some of the dishes we were served with, but as we appeared to suffer no ill effects therefrom, suppose they were alright.
Two fellows once went into one of these restaurants, neither of them understanding a word of the language, so when the menu was handed to them, they just pointed their finger at what they imagined might be something to their liking.  The waiter brought one an apple and the other a plate of soup.  They tried again with the result just as absurd, and after attempting to obtain their requirements and failing, gave the thing up in disgust.  On making the waiter understand that they wanted their bill, he brought same showing an amount due by each to be very much in excess of what they imagined it should be, as they had really had nothing substantial.  However they paid the amount asked, and on leaving the premises, the manager opened the door for them, and on their passing out said "Adieu, Monsieurs!"  These fellows thought he was "throwing off" at them, and they replied that they were perfect-