  
 the 20th. September, for dear old England. 
 CHAPTER XXX111. 
 " BLIGHTY" LEAVE . 
 A coincidence.  At about noon on the 20th. September '17, I step on board the boat which is to convey me to England on ten day's leave.  At about noon on the 20th September, '16 I also stepped on board a boat which was to convey me to England.  Exactly twelve months between, but with very different feelings and under very different circumstances.  Twelve months ago I was not so lively as to-day.  Twelve months ago I bid farewell to those I loved, to-day I bid farewel to the land which has caused me much misery.  How different.  Twelve months ago I start on a journey which leads to trouble, to-day I start on a journey which I intend shall lead to a bit of pleasure. 
 On arrival at Folkestone we - after waiting some time - bundle ourselves into a train and after a few hours arrive at Victoria.  Here refreshments are provided, then we are lined up and march to our Army headquarters, and are issued with a clean change of clothes, railway warrants, - which we hand into the booking office of the station from which we start our journey and get a ticket in lieu thereof - and get as much "affluence" as the chap in the pay office will allow us, and then we are free, free, free till the expiration of our leave, that is unless we fall "foul" of the "jacks". 
 Your pack and rifle and other impedimenta can be left at the headquarters if you so desire. 
 I am English, and I love old England, I love the old buildings and the country, it is all so different from other places.  The buildings which we pass on our march to H.Q's. were black with age, but grand and beautiful, and it annoyed me to hear some of the remarks made by fellows who had never before been to England.  "This is London, is it? well! don't think much of the buildings anyway.  Dirty and grimy why don't they brighten them up a bit.  Gives a chap the "blues" to look at them.  Melbourne easily beats them".  All the way along one or two would keep "slinging off" at the streets or buildings, and 