  
 at Messines and Passchandaele. 
 The camp to which I with others moved, was at  MORBEQUE , just outside Hazebrouck.  Composed of tents (not camouflaged) made it a very good mark for the enemy on his nightly rounds in the air.  Many a time have I screwed my small body into as small a space as possible, when that wretched sound of his 'plane gets nearer and nearer.  Oh!  it's a rotten feeling when he is above you.  It's not where he intends to drop his"eggs" which worries so much, but it's where they fall. 
 The aircraft guard would blow three whistles (I mean three blasts on one whistle) as a sign to "take cover".  There was no chance of taking any more cover than the tent supplied, so why on earth did he blow the three blasts.  It only succeeded in waking us up, whereas we might have slept through the visit.  "One" blast on the whistle signified "all clear".  There were a good many "blasts" apart from those blown by the chap on guard. 
 While here it was the custom for us to go for a swim every few days.  A canal was about four miles away, sluggish, muddy, stagnant, and almost choked with weeds.  So sluggish and "dead" was the water that I doubt if a gale of wind could have produced the slightest ripple on it's surface, or upset the "even" tener of it's way, simply because it had no "way".  It was the quietest and most stationary piece of water I have ever seen.  That we came out from it dirtier than when we entered is quite immaterial.  What got me thinking was why we should have to march for this swim in "fighting order". 
 Why we should have to carry our rifles and ammunition to this poor harmless, and silent canal was quite beyond my comprehension. 
 I have read that in some places in America it was on occasions necessary to "shoot" the rapids, of course in that case I could quite understand the necessity for "fighting order", but to this canal, where the only fighting required was after you had got in the water - to fight against the mud and weeds in the struggle to reach the bank again - Well! it made me think very hard. 