  
 occupied about two nights ago.  Here we receive our mail, mine including two parcels containing cake and other delicacies.  They add to the weight I have to carry, but I have received letters from home and know all is well there, and I also know that we are out for a rest, and that every step I take carries me further from misery, so a little extra weight does not matter. 
 We rise early after a short sleep, breakfast at 5.a.m. and march off an hour later.  This time in the direction we wish to go. 
 Arrive at Bapaume at about 8.30.a.m..  The train which should convey us at 9.a.m. cannot proceed as the line has just been blown up by a well directed shell.  We sit about the ruined buildings of this once fine and prosperous town, and have some cocoa which is supplied by the Australian Comforts people.  It is the 14th April '17. 
 At about 3.p.m. we "board" some trucks, some fellows having removed their boots do the short walk in socks only.  We were all more or less limping along.  We had not removed our boots very much lately.  We eat what remains in our haversacks, feeling that in a very short time we should be obtaining our meals at regular intervals. 
 While we await the arrival of the engine, we prepare the usual means of obtaining artificial heat, by cutting open a biscuit tin and making holes therein. 
 Eventually an engine or what appears to be shaped like one connects up with the trucks we occupy.  This does not necessarily follow that we are about to start.  It is about 6.p.m. before the locomotive gives a shrill whistle, and a few snorts, then when it has got over the exertion it seems to put it's whole soul into the job, and to our consternation and to the accompaniment of our cheers the train begins to move forward.  I say "forward" advisedly, you never knew in France which way a train would move, sometimes backwards, and on more than one occasion "sideways" however this time it moved forward, not quickly but it was distinctly noticeable that it was moving.  It gained in pace the further it went until it attained a speed of something 