  
 "painfully evident.  They apparently had cannibalistic tendencies, as we soon discovered that the fair ones were quickly disappearing, while the darker "chats" increased greatly in numbers.  I should imagine that the forebears of the "dark-hued" chat must have been closely related to the common house flea, as I fail to see how they could have travelled from one point of our bodies to another in such a short space of time without "hopping" at least a portion of the way.  You would feel several bites in one locality of your anatomy and quickly "view the situation" to find that they had vacated that position, and were already no doubt "forming up" for an attack elsewhere.  Yes! they were too lively for us.  Fritz no doubt understood them.  I wonder why they were so dark. 
 I hope you will forgive me for mentioning these vermin, but I really think that they are entitled to a little space, as they were without doubt one of the - if not the - greatest worries we had to contend with. 
 Just at the foot of the hill near my "home" was what remained of a huge sugar refinery.  Many fellows camped among the ruins. 
 Our "cookers" were domiciled very close to these ruins. 
 Some fellows made dugouts along the sides of the roads, in the village, I did not quite fancy this idea, as running parallel with the main road was a battery of our big guns, and "he" was continually "feeling" for these guns with "big stuff" high explosive, and high velocity shells, to say nothing of the awful and paralising "whiz-bang".  The "screaming" of these shells as they passed over (perilously near at times) was most disconcerting.  Night and day just the same, over they came. 
 Every night would see us on some fatigue work, carrying rations or bombs, or other stuff up to the front line, which was a very short distance away. 
 Of course no lights were allowed.  It's astonishing at what a distance a small light is visible at night.  You try some dark night, and see how plainly a lighted cigarette is visible, you will be surprised at the 