  
 comparing some of tha [the?] Australian cities with London, to the detriment and disparagement of the latter. 
 However if the buildings did not find favor, the treatment of the Australian troops by the people who occupied the said gloomy and grimy domiciles left nothing to be desired.  What the buildings lacked in brightness was easily counteracted by the wholehearted welcome and subsequent hospitality extended to and enjoyed by the Australian troops in general. 
 I spent a few days with relations in London then went down to the old haunts of my youth and hoped that I should be well away from the sight of khaki for a time.  What was my surprise and disgust on arrival, to see one of our chaps.  It was only a small village and yet here was another Aussie.  It seemed impossible to get away from them.  They appeared to be everywhere. 
 What a treat it was to have a bit of peace and quietness again and to feel clean once more.  What a welcome change too to hear the good old language spoken, instead of the continuous "pas comprez, Monsieur." 
 The first few days were glorious and I enjoyed every minute of the time, but as the day drew near for me to return, (ye gods! I felt very much like going A.W.L.) my spirits fell to zero, and all my enjoyments were dampened by the thought that the time was drawing so near for me to return to the [scenes?] of warfare again.  It was as if a cloud was hanging over me. 
 I did a good bit of travelling all over the country, and what a lovely country too.  Clear skies, cool and refreshing weather, and the autumn [mists?] appearing made everything so peaceful and pleasant. 
 Everywhere, the Aussie uniform was made welcome, the people could not do enough to show their appreciation of our actions.  As in France and Belgium, so here, the "turned up" was sure of a good time. 
 I again as I had done about twelve months ago, studied the newspapers to see if there was any sign of finality being reached, with victory for us in the great struggle, but instead of there being any abatement in the [determination?] of the enemy, the reverse appeared to be the case.  Personally I 