
were available, so we had to use our small entrenching tools, our hands, or anything with which we could remove the awful clay from the marked out space, throwing it up in the front, to make the "parapet".  We had to work pretty hard as we must be out of sight by daylight.  We would take it in turn to use the spades.  It was terribly hard digging, the soil all being of clay, which sticks so much.  We were very quiet all the night, working as hard as we could, so that we should be able to conceal our bodies during the following day, while we still continued to dig.  The whole proceeding was very weird and uncanny, but the enemy appeared to be in ignorance of our close proximity to him.
How grand the fellows were, one would help another who did not get on too well. We all wondered what would happen when the enemy saw the newly turned earth.
Dawn arrived, we were still going for all we were worth, expecting every moment that Fritz would "open out" on us.  We had not to wait very long (I suppose he wished to first find out if the new trench was occupied) before he started.  Some of us had only got "down" about two feet, and were still busy digging deeper.
All that day he kept at us with all kinds of "iron foundries".  One whiz-bang burst just in front of me, blowing off my steel helmet, and burying me in the trench.  I managed to wriggle out, and no sooner had I got clear than another did the same thing.  I being of a superstitious nature, did not wait for the third one, but crawled down the trench, and that beauty whiz-bang chased me all along the trench.  I tell you there were not many fellows who were not suffering a bit from the "shakes" that day.  We had no time to make dugouts, only just managed to hide ourselves before daylight.
To add to our comfort it snowed or rained nearly all the time.  Mud, ye gods! we were absolutely eating it.  It was hard to discern the features of the different men.  What mud we did not collect when falling flat in the trench, would be "issued" to us by the shells which were bursting just