  
 those days, amid dirty and disgusting surroundings too.  Beer cheap and watery.   Wine dear and thick.  Spirits high priced and quickly effective!! 
 Bailleul is a large railway centre. 
 We spend a good deal of our spare time in this town, while camped here.  The "jacks" being ever on the alert for those who delay their departure after the prescribed time.  Noted houses at times being searched, for those who fail to report back at camp. 
 While in this camp a certain number of men are picked out to be sent further "back" to a reinforcement camp, to form the nucleus of another battalion, should the existing one be practically annihilated in the forthcoming action.  I am amongst the number chosen to remain behind. 
 While in this camp I suffer considerable pain from what I imagine to be rheumatism in the forearms and shins.  The "quack" is of the opinion that I am suffering from trench-fever, and with the object of diagnosing my case asks many questions relating to my civil occupation, what hobbies I had, what manures I used on my flower garden, if I had any "chats" and questions which to my dull and uneducated mind appeared to have no bearing on the case at all.  He said my case was most interesting.  This of course pleased me greatly, but failed to relieve the pain.  I think the cure was eventually effected by a shell which had me running all over the place.  One of the quickest and most effective cures for most ills was a shell to burst in your vicinity, if you could'nt get up and run, well! then there was something pretty wrong with you, and should result in your being sent "back" to the the base.  A bomb dropped in your immediate locality would have much the same effect, only a little more so, perhaps. 
 "Bombing" had not come into fashion very much at this time, but it was not long before it became quite the "rage". 
 We remained in this camp for a few days only, then those who had been chosen for the "nucleus" marched "back" to a camp near Hazelbrouck, and the others moved "forward" to take part in the historic and successful actions 