  
 with a green coating of slime, caused through stagnation.  The smell resulting from the disturbing of same was enough to create a plague amongst ordinary people, but these living round about apparently thrived on it. 
 Remain here about ten days then move on to the fine town of 
  STEENWERCK . 
 which is a very short distance from the terribly knocked about town of Armentierres.  We get a great deal more excitement here.  Shells are continuously flying overhead and all round the town, but at this period none fell in the town.  The reason of this was - I understand - that the town contained so many enemy spies, and "he" refrained from shelling or bombing it on that account. 
 Saw some wonderful aerial feats performed by the enemy, he would seem to appear from nowhere and suddenly down would come one of our observation balloons, ye gods! he was very quick.  The occupants of the balloons when things became a bit too hot would descend in the parachutes, which always appeared to me as being a somewhat risky performance, and one which left an awful lot to good luck and a bit also to the way in which the wind would be at the time blowing.  Not for me thanks!  I am satisfied with terra firma, that is when it is firm, but in these localities, there was considerably more "terror" than "firmer", especially when the "big stuff" was dropping round. 
 Civilians have not deemed it necessary to move away from here although this town is unpleasantly close to "the business".  Our Headquarters remain till latter end of July and then return to the village of  VIEUX BERQUIN  for about a fortnight after which we move to a typical Belgian village, which depends solely apparently on the agricultural district which surrounds it. 
  DRANOUTRE . 
 The "boss", the other clerk and myself take up our abode in a fine old farm house, where there are three fine buxom girls.  They do most of the farm work, flop about in their "clogs", which seem such clumsy things, always makes me wonder how they manage to keep them on. 