  
 become mad with fear, a shell will cause disaster to men and material, the traffic man on duty, has to clear away the debris, be it human or otherwise, and steady the frightened animals or get them off the road.  All this is the duty of the traffic control man.  He is not a policeman.  The traffic control is a distinct unit and men are trained specially for the job.  Coolness and absolute bravery are required for this duty. 
 He has also to keep his eyes open for anyone whose actions appear to be suspicious.  For instance if any man or officer - who is not known to the traffic control man - should ask the positions of different batteries, or anything appertaining to the sector, it is the duty of the t.c.m. to report the occurrence at once, and if not possible at the time, then he should detain him if his explanations are not satisfactory. 
 The traffic control man has to be thoroughly acquainted with the map, and must be ready to at once direct anyone to the place he wishes to go to, also to know where the different battalions and batteries are situated, to detain anyone who passes his post without authority. 
 No!  traffic control duty at the front is no sinecure.  It's about the worst job in the army.  Lonely in a sense, and risky to a degree.  I did a bit of it myself and I know.  Those who have travelled down Menin Road, and found Hellfire Corner, and a few such places as those, when the enemy were busy will perhaps realise what the traffic control man's job was like.  No!  it was no policeman's job there.  It required bravery, coolness and quick thought and action.  It was no fool's job that. 
 Our office and sleeping place was in the big chateau, all the headquarters were there including the General.  We did not remove our clothes at night, as we expected to have to make a very hurried move at any moment. 
 We did traffic duty all that day till late at night, then we would relieve one another for an hour or so.  The following day was much the same. 
 We drank a lot of champagne and wines here, you see it would 