  
 get reasonably clean again. 
 It was always the same with me, I would image that I was gaining a point on the other fellows, but in this case as in others my "smartness" resulted in my own undoing.  I had considered myself very wise in selecting the position under the chimney, but had failed to take into consideration an unseen force, over which I had no control.  I suffered accordingly.  Well! it caused mirth to others, so I didn't mind.  I smiled a bit myself too.  I changed my position for sleeping. 
 The civilians occupying the house adjoining our "room" were like most others hereabouts, in respect to cleanliness and modesty. (or lack of these virtues, I should say).  We had to wash in the open, and some of us would wash more than our faces, the civilians talking and joking with us during our albutions. 
 There were hot baths in this "town" and we were marched down every few days to obtain this necessary source to good health, at the same time procuring a clean change of "under linen".  In many cases the "clean" flannel shirts contained "life" more vigorous and ravenous than that existing in the garments we handed in.  It appeared absolutely impossible to get rid of these pests.  We spent many francs in purchasing stuff for their destruction, but they only seemed to thrive on it. 
 During this period, the pay-sergeant had received new pay-books which had to be issued to all troops in lieu of the original issue.  I successfully offered my services to assist him in this work, (a smart bit of wangling on my part), but neglected unfortunately to obtain the permission of my commanding officer, who on one occasion stopped me and wanted to know how it was that I was marked as "absent from parade" each day.  I replied that as I had already been through the A.B.C. of soldiering, I thought my services would be of greater value in assisting the pay-sergeant.  He gave his consent for the continuance of this work, at the same time telling me in a manner which I could not misunderstand, that I did not know the "first 