  
 ion balloons was almost overhead, and the enemy could also see us moving about from their position a short distance away. 
 The two ends of this village were on high ground, while the centre was in a valley. 
 The reason for our "lying low" during the day was  palatable  palpable.  If the enemy saw crowds of men he would at once blow the place to pieces.  There were only "pieces now" ' tis true, but "he could have made it too hot for us to remain, if he wished. 
 On the hill at one end of the village, was a large block of buildings which had so far been untouched by shell-fire, it seemed so strange that these buildings should have been spared, while all the rest of the village was in absolute ruins.  Inside these buildings, was clean straw and the whole place looked most inviting for sleeping accommodation.  The straw was nicely laid on the floors, and in the mangers, (had apparently been hugh cowsheds and stables), but we were not allowed to inhabit them as the whole lot might be "mined", the straw and generally comfortable appearance being merely a "trap" set by the enemy.  So for a time these buildings were left severely alone. 
 At the other end of the village there was nothing but ruined buildings.  It was here that we picked our spot for sleeping.  We were not so lucky as some fellows, they found some dug-outs, and cellars, whilst many slept in fowl-houses, rabbit-hutches, or pig-sties. 
 "Chats" in this village seemed to "take to" us  again  at once.  They were a totally different kind of "chat" to what we had become accustomed to.  This - to us - new specie was of a different color, being of a darker hue, and much more "alert" than their fair brothers which had become to us as it were a portion of ourselves.  They seemed more energetic, they could travel faster.  They appeared to be of a shy and nervous disposition.  They seemed to favor "massed formation", their attacks were not made singly, as we had been used to heretofore.  That they had been without "rations" for a few days was 