  
 The excitement is intense, not knowing what minute we may be discovered.  We sit down by the wayside awaiting the return of our advance party, as to whether the course is clear or not.  They return and report not having seen nor heard the enemy so we march on, through the many villages, where all is silent.  As little noise as possible is made by us.  The feeling produced was as if you anticipated something appalling to happen at any moment and personally I was jolly glad when we arrived at our destination, which was at about 9.a.m..  We had marched continuously from about 6.p.m. the evening before, roughly fifteen hours continuous marching with the exception of a halt for a few minutes at a time.  We arrive at our destination, the once peaceful and picturesque village of which I have already told you, peaceful and picturesque no longer, but the centre of great activity, and a dangerous place now 
  BAIZIEUX . 
 is almost surrounded by the enemy, the shelling and bombing is reducing this village as it reduced many others - to ruins. 
 The traffic is continuous and at times congested, the main thing is to keep it moving, so everyone, officers and all available men are detailed to assist in this most important work - the control of the traffic -, for if congestion takes place, then delay and trouble ensue.  One of our most prominent doctors took a hand at this game, I saw him holding up his hand to stop and then waving his arm to start the traffic moving again. 
 One who has never been employed on this work has any idea what it means.  The traffic control man is on duty in the most exposed positions.  He has to regulate the traffic, and keep it on the move, no matter how his position is being shelled or bombed.  Supplies must go up the line for men and guns, and the ambulances must bring the wounded back. 
 You watch the policeman on traffic duty in London, and then imagine them carrying out the same duty on roads whcih are being shelled and having to keep the continuous stream moving.  Men may leave their mules, or the animals 