  
 Perhaps the residents hereabouts had approached the military authorities, with a request that the soldiers be "ordered" to bathe here, thereby causing some movement in the water and thus relieving the somewhat over-charged atmosphere, as it were.  That I could quite understand, but why rifles and ammunition?  Ah well!  I suppose I am over full and cannot "fathom" the mysteries of military genius.  Now had we been ordered to wear gas masks during these swims, it would have been more to the point, more sensible, - but not, certainly not - military. 
 Physical jerks and all kinds of drill were carried on in this camp as it was also the place where reinforcements were finally drafted to their correct battalions.  Met quite a number of fellows who had left Aussie since my departure from it's peaceful shores, thinking then that the "job" would be over before my arrival.  The end seemed further away than ever, now.  Things were daily becoming more exciting in the air too. 
 About a couple of hundred yards from the camp was our canteen or rather a canteen belonging to one of the "Tommie" regiments camped in the locality, which we were allowed to use.  It was situated at the side of a very narrow road, which did not allow of the passing of two vehicles at one time. 
 One day a lorrie was unloading at this canteen when a "staff car" approached and could not pass.  The car contained a "staff"captain, who called to the driver of the lorrie to remove same and allow him to pass.  The "command" was given in such a tone as to make everyone turn and look at the occupant of the car.  It seemed so unnesessary for the huge lorrie to have to move, when the "staff officer" could so easily have got out of his car and walked the short distance to the camp.  However the lorrie had to move, and the "staff" car went along with it's irate staff officer.  I formed my opinion of the said officer, and it coincided absolutely with the loudly expressed opinions of those who witnessed [d added by hand) the incident.  The opinion was at once unanimous and popular, and was expressed in two words only, a very expressive "adjective" and a decided "noun".  I think those are the correct school terms for the words. 