
We were instructed to be inreadiness for marching off at 10:30.p.m. that night, to the position decided on for the starting point of our attack, which was to take place in the early hours of the morrow. 
At the appointed time all were ready, with rifles clean, all gear in order, iron rations in our haversacks, 220 rounds of ammunition each, and bombs in our pockets, and bayonets polished. We waited in our billet for further orders. 
About eleven o'clock our Captain came along and after having a few words with us and wishing us the best of luck, telling us that we had a different position to take, and that we must not falter until our objective was gained. He then issued each man with rum (a little more than usual). The roll was called, we wondered how many of us would answere"present" at the next "roll call". We noted the absent ones, due to the catastrophe of the afternoon. This completed, we "formed up" outside the building, shells meanwhile bursting all around us. 
The next order was "form fours", quick march". We had left those wretched buildings, still intact, and wondered if we should ever see them again. The march was carried out in deep silence, our thoughts occupied with the awful experiences of the afternoon, and the anticipation of what tomorrow might have in store for us. We say few words to one another in whispers, but mostly our thoughts are fully occupied with our individual private affairs. We wonder if the enemy has any knowledge of our intentions, or has the matter become known to him, as if we can expect a pretty warm welcome. Ah well, the next few hours will decide. 
Most of the journey was across fields which had been ploughed and in some cases planted by the enemy. It must have been a bitter pill for him to have to evacuate such valuable land. The walking was very heavy, but everything seemed quiet, with the exception of shells flying over our heads to the village we had just left to which many of us would never return.
We were very glad when we at last arrived at the place from 