
is apparently no objection to your sitting on it if you feel that way disposed.  The trouble is not in the going down or the coming up.  The trouble is at the top and at the bottom, the "latter" mostly, at least so I found it.
At the foot of this "moving stairway" is a brass "mat" or "disc" on which you are supposed to step, (personally I should have thought rubber would have been safer).  Having on military boots with a steel "heel-tip" made the "stepping-off" process decidedly exciting for myself and very amusing to the onlookers.  Of course I sat down on that brass mat quicker than the crowd at the back of me expected.  Personally it did not in the least surprise me.  Someone immediately after was good enough to advise me to always step-off with the right foot, as I had done this on the occasion in question, the next time I tried with the left foot, with an exactly similar result.  I tried jumping off with both feet at once, but the end was the same.  I always landed with "high velocity" on the brass mat, in a sitting position.  At last I decided to travel the whole distance in that position which I found to be far more successful and much less painful, if perhaps disappointing to the onlookers.  I verily believe that many people used to spend many enjoyable hours sitting on the station watching the uninitiated measure their length at the foot of that escolator.  Whenever I wished to go to a place that had one of these "jokes", I went by bus, or tram, or walked.  They fairly got my wind up, and yet so many just went down them in a most annoyingly [handwritten amendment to 'annoying'] casual, everyday kind of way.  Not any more escolators for me thanks.
                         ----------------------------------------
Another thing that rather "put the wind" up me was one time when on leave from France, I had arrived at some station on the underground and not being sure of the way out, I as usual followed the crowd, when they all stopped I thought that there was a "block" at the gate owing to the slowness of the man collecting tickets, and felt sorry for him, when all of a sudden without the slightest warning the whole place "lifted" up.  My first thought was that the station had been "mined" and that in the next few moments many of us would