  
 out before starting.  No!  I didn't ask because I thought that Shoreditch or any other blooming "ditch" would naturally be in the country, I certainly didn't think it would be in the very heart of the slums of London.  Well!  I ask you, would you think so either? 
 On telling my friends, they all roared with laughter, and said something about a chap named Shore having been drowned in a ditch there years ago and that is how the place got it's name, but I didn't take much interest in the thing.  I maintain that the name was most misleading and that I ought to have got my money back and a free trip to Brighton to get over the effects of the dust and filth I must have swallowed. 
                          ------------------------------------------- 
 Politeness and chivalry are splendid virtues, but unfortunately often result in unpleasantness and inconvenience to some who practice such.  It appeared to be the exception rather than the rule in buses, trams and trains, for the menfolk to offer their seats to the other sex.  This practise at once becomes evident to the Aussies, who would never think of retaining a seat while a lady would be - through his selfish action - forced to stand.  On more than one occasion I - like many others - suffered by giving up my seat on a tram to a lady.  The conductor would tell me that as no standing was allowed, I would have to get off the car, and wait for the next, rather rough, after having gone perhaps half the distance to my destination, and the next car would probably make me late for an appointment.  I was called a fool by some of my male friends, but it made no difference.  The Aussies would always do what was the recognised habit in their own country.  It was most noticeable, this lack of respect for the fair sex, by the average Englishman.  On more than one occasion I have seen an Aussie catch hold of some well-dressed chap and "yank" him out of his seat by the "scruff" of his neck, to allow a lady to sit down, the said lady protesting meanwhile that she does not want to sit down, but the Aussie would insist, to the admiration and amusement of the other passengers, and to the chagrin, consternation, and humiliation of the well-dressed, swank- 