
It's all rush and bustle in the underground railways, and it was necessary to keep a pretty cool head or you would be carried to the wrong place.  I generally used to get in the train which was most popular with the public, and then get out when the train began to get a bit empty, and catch a bus to where I wished to go.  Hours and hours I spent in going to places which other people did in a few minutes, just because I was too big a fool to ask.  People have asked me out to dinner and I would start on my journey leaving ample time to arrive early, I would miss the dinner and lose the friends through my stupidity.  They would write to me giving definite instructions as to trains, trams, or busses, so that it would be impossible for me to do the wrong thing.  I would start on the journey and then discover that I had left their letter in my other tunic.
If all went fairly well, and I was successful in arriving at the house, then my whole evening's enjoyment would be spoilt by the thought of my missing the last 58 car.
                    -----------------------------------------------
A chap in the office had worked out travelling in London to a fine art.  He knew the cheapest and most satisfactory way to get to anywhere.  He even knew the times of the day that the underground trains would not be packed.  He was a marvel.  He ought to have given up office and gone in for "guide" business.  I got "route" instructions from him on several occasions and started out with the firm determination to "carry" them out to the letter, but in a weak moment I listened to anothers advice, and as usual made a mess of things.
                       -----------------------------------------------
On one occasion I received a letter from a friend at Finsbury Park, asking me to go out there at her house at 4.p.m. the following day.  She gave me full instructions how to get there, stating that from the office to her house would occupy not more than twenty minutes.
I left the office the following day at about a quarter past three to ensure my arrival there at the time appointed.  Of course on looking for her