
ory.  The 58 car played a great part in my life, and even now when I require a tram I invariably look to see if by any chance it is a 58.  Strange that my regimental number totalled thirteen - 2416 - and here in London I find other numbers producing a far more pleasureable result totalling thirteen also -58- [.?]  Whenever I appeared to be hopelessly lost, I would request a policeman to direct me to the nearest 58 tram.
                   --------------------------------------------
The underground railway had me fairly beaten.  I remember on one occasion I wished to go to a certain place, and got my ticket, after going to the wrong window once or twice, and took my seat in the train marked "Inner Circle" - as instructed by an obliging official -.  I was informed that the journey would only take a few minutes.  If you have ever travelled in the underground you will perhaps agree with me that the names of the stations are not nearly so "pronounced" as are many of the advertisements which literally cover the walls of these stations.  You will also agree that the space of time allowed during the stoppage at these stations does not admit of even a very hurried perusal of the many writings on the walls of the aforesaid stations.  Taking these two facts into consideration - combined with the sudden blaze of light on the said stations, (after having been surrounded by darkness) which affects the eyes for a time - you will perhaps the more readily understand how it was that the journey to my destination lasted considerably longer than would have been the case had the names of the stations been more conspicuous.  The names of the stations as they appeared to me were as follows:- BOVRIL - OSRAM - KEENS MUSTARD- OXO - P.D.CORSETS - and many other such. In sheer desperation I approached the conductor, and explained that it seemed to me strange that the railway people should sell me a ticket to a place which their trains did not appear to stop at.  He informed me that I had already passed through the station I required twice, and stated that he thought I was only just out for a joy ride.  I had to confess to feeling a bit giddy going round and round that wretched "Inner Circle".