  
 days work. 
 Many of my friends, not knowing the nature of this ribbon wished to be informed as to it's significance, and they appeared to be surprised when I informed them that the much-coveted "Victoria Cross" was won during only a moment of spasmodic bravery, or superlative daring, but that the M.S.M. was awarded for "continuous" brilliancy throughout the whole campaign!!! 
 CHAPTER XL. 
  LONDON - SOME EXPERIENCES . 
 London - the hub of the universe.  The greatest city in the world, and the most wonderful.  All nations of the world are represented here.  The very best of everything is here.  At once the pride and boast of every Englishman.  The city which everyone who can, visits. 
 While on the subject of this city I shall relate a few of my personal experiences during the fifteen months I sojourned there. 
 My bump of locality is conspicuous by it's absence.  A bigger fool than myself at finding his way about it would be hard to find.  I was for ever doing something idiotic and stupid.  I don't know why I'm sure, whether it was caused by extreme nervousness or simply by my own absolute stupidity, (which I do not hesitate to admit), but whichever was the cause, it succeeded in making an abject fool of me on very many occasions. 
                               ------------------------------- 
 Directly I arrived in London my head seemed to be in a whirl, the traffic, the many people, the continuous yelling of the hawkers and newsmongers, the catching of trams and busses, the general excitement prevailing on all sides, must have "turned" what little brain I had left, I tremble when I look back on the stupid things I did and the narrow escapes I had during the whole time I was in London.  One thing - thank goodness - always remained in my brain, and that was the number of the tram which would take me home - 58 -.  When I first discovered this I would write the number down, and repeat it to myself as often as possible, and thus succeeded in committing it to mem- 