  
 pleasant study in my spare moments, there are - tall girls, short girls, - thin girls, fat girls, - dark girls, fair girls, - sweet girls, sour girls, - old girls, young girls, playful girls - crusty girls, "crummy" girls - married girls, single girls - engaged girls, free girls, - swanky girls, sloppy girls, - pretty girls, plain girls, - swift girls, slow girls, - artificial girls, natural girls - easy girls, difficult girls - willing girls, stubborn girls, - graceful girls,  dis ungraceful girls, - girls of all shapes and sizes were congregated in this huge room.  What a study, and a variety of coverings some of them had too.  In some cases you would see a lot of girl, in others mostly dress.  What an assortment.  Is it any wonder that a fellow just fresh from the "front" would become much interested in his surroundings, and at times neglect his work.  There were only about three to four hundred here, makes one wonder how good old "Solomon the Wise" fared with about double this number, ye gods! what a time he must have had, and what pluck too.  I thoroughly enjoy working in this pleasant atmosphere, although at times it is a bit "thick" owing to the great variety of perfumes and powder which float around the room from many of the fair sex employed therein, who in their ignorance consider the former essential, and in their foolishness imagine their faces and necks are improved by a camouflage of the latter.  It has always seem to me a crying shame that so many pretty faces should be covered with a thick layer of powder, I can quite understand a little being applied at times but the quantity used by some girls now-a-days is beyond all reason and if for one moment they imagine that their beauty is enhanced, or their chances of early matrimony advanced, then they make a grievous error.  Men like to see the real face of the girl they intend to marry, and also they like to be quite sure that the figure is all their own and no artificiality exists there. 
 Woman, - what a topic, what a study, - and here all round me were hundreds, all different.  Amongst the whole lot I noticed very few with high necks and long skirts, very very few.  Oh! it was a great study. 
 The girls left off work about ten minutes before the men, the 