
a proper programme was adhered to, and the ceremony from start to finish was performed with due solemnity and impressiveness.  Neptune, his wife, the doctor, the barber and his assistants, and the quartette of mermaids took their places and carried out their allotted functions in a manner which was thoroughly appreciated by the assembled audience, who did not fail to convey their feelings in a proper spirit.
A newspaper was published on board, which did not fail to find a ready sale.  Sports were held, to which entries were not lacking.  Whist drives were well attended.  Dances, sometimes fancy dress, sometimes plain - were always popular.  Concerts nearly every Saturday night were given by the "Kigoma Stars" which were always very well patronised.  Everything was done to make the trip [handwritten amendment of t] as enjoyable as possible.
On arrival at Fremantle, a few are on the wharf.  I am met by my own people, but as my pay duties are not completed it is necessary for me to continue on the boat to Sydney.  We remain for a couple of days in W.A. and then proceed to Melbourne where we stay about a day and then on to Sydney where we arrive in the dusk of evening.
This is the first time I have seen the harbour.  I had heard a lot about Sydney Harbour and the impression it at once created on me was that its beauty was beyond expressing.  Victorians boast of their marvellous Melbourne.  New South Welshmen boast of their harbour.  Melbourne is indeed a very fine city, it's streets well planned and laid out, it's buildings substantial and noble, it's parks and gardens beautiful.  Yes! the Victorians have something to boast about.  Melbourne is indeed a very fine city.  Sydney Harbour. - well! words cannot express it's beauty.  Speech cannot convey it's grandeur.  Pictures fail to reproduce it's splendour.  One must see it, and travel on some of the ferry boats, to appreciate this wonderful work of nature.
Many say that this is the second harbor of the world as regards beauty.  Personally I wish to see nothing grander, or more picturesque than I