  
 uous as it had been, except to those with whom I came in close contact. 
 Went to a few theatres, and concerts and saw many parts of the city and places of interest which might not have been the case had I been alone in my wanderings. 
 There was no certainty as to when I should be returning to Australia, and I continually wrote to my people telling them to expect me almost any time, but month after month went by and still I remained. 
 During this time I visited many places, and realised what England really was.  Went down to my old birth-place several times, and spent many pleasant times in the suburbs of the metropolis.  What a glorious place England is, after all how few of us see the real England.  How many just spend all their time in London and other big cities, and do not trouble to go further into the glorious country, and yet the fields and lanes are so very close, a bus or tram ride will take one to beautiful spots, such as Ealing, Epping Forest, Farborough, Dorking, Reigate, and many other places where a most enjoyable and refreshing few hours can be spent. 
 Then again the seaside resorts are so very handy.  I spent a very enjoyable few days at Cliftonville, where the hotels and boarding houses cater well for the holiday makers, and where the bathing facilities are thoroughly up-to-date- Herne Bay is another very fine spot, which is within easy distance from Canterbury Cathedral, which I visited and well worth a visit it is too.  Very fine busses run to a regular time table from this beautiful resort.  Brighton is so close also to the city, and many other places of interest. 
 On one occasion a few other Aussies and myself were invited to the Albert Hall to hear one of Madame Melba's concerts.  We were greatly honored by occupying the Royal Box. 
 I spend a most enjoyable and typically English Christmas Day with my friends, and on New Years' Eve watch the dawn of the coming year, and wonder as we all do at this time, what the New Year has in store for us. 