  
 Gradually England faded from our view, and we were all on our way "homeward bound".  It seemed very strange to be again on the water, after being away for about four years. 
 After the first few days we all settled down very comfortably, and what with our work which took up most of the day and concerts, card parties, sports, and music the time went pretty quickly. 
 There were about half a dozen of us employed in the Pay Office so for the first two or three weeks we had very little time to ourselves, we were a pretty happy crowd. 
 Called at Teneriffe where we spent about half a day, having a good look round the town of Santa Cruz, which was most interesting, but like all or nearly all foreign ports, dirty and unhealthy looking. 
 Our next port of call was Cape Town, where we remain for two days, during which we see much and generally have a very good time.  From Tilbury to here the voyage had been very pleasant the weather fine, and the sea reasonable [reasonably] calm. 
 No sooner had we [w is handwritten amendment] left the latter port than we met heavy weather, and I don't think anyone on board will ever forget the night of 15th and 16th June, as long as they live.  Mountainous seas and hurricane winds made us wonder if the boat could stand up against such for long, the rolling and pitching of the vessel were quite beyond anything any of us had before experienced, the noise of crashing crockery, and the shifting furniture were deafening.  The climax was reached when at about 2.a.m. we very nearly collided with a sailing vessel, and in avoiding same very nearly turned "turtle" in the trough of the sea.  In the morning - later - we all realised what a very narrow escape we had had.  One life boat had been washed overboard, and two had been badly smashed.  The rough weather continued more or less until our arrival at Fremantle. 
 While"crossing the line" the usual "Neptune" stunt was carried out in a most realistic and interesting manner.  No horse play was indulged in 
   
   