a5763218.html
177
L
C.T.S. Havre.
Sept...Oct. 1917.
My Lecture, or rather the
Foundation of it.
P A T R O L S.
 
Instructional     Sequence.



Heading.
Sub Heading.

Detail.





Arouse Interest.
Impress men of value of what they will hear.
This Lecture and the hints all practised may help to do a good piece of work and may save the patrol in an emergency


Information.
How secured.
How Patrols supplement Photos and spies' information.


 
How Important.
Not what one scout says but what hundreds say.


 
Never exaggerate.
Scouts must never tell anything but barest facts. Never guess.



Sorts of Patrol.
    'two'

Fighting Patrol.
Dismiss explaining this it is not the subject of the talk.


 
Reconnoitring Patrol.
Explain its purpose and various objectives.



Sequence of a Patrol.
 
 
 
 
 
 



Special Note to Instructors.


Don't Talk of casualties:


Emphasize value of skill and caution.


Tell Short stories of successful and Interesting Patrols.


Compare always Good and Bad Work.



 
 
 



Special Hints.

Aids to direction.
Always keep formation.



 
Crawling. Patience.


 

Communication.
Wirecutting.




 


Choose a Routine Pat-rol and describe in sequence from start to finish.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Selection of men - strength - objective - special duties - Equipment only what is necess-ary - blackeh faces & hands - Choice of arms, knobkerry, knife, rifle & bayonet, bayon-et in puttee - special charac-teristic of each weapon, wear caps and gloves - special use of revolver and bomb, use and disadvantage - waterproof suit is noisy - How to warn the posts - Leaving Parapet - Move out quickly and why - Keep in touch with formation Stop, look and listen often - How to use Shell Holes, the disadvantages, how to test them for occupation - Action under Verey Lights - Search-lights - Wires-cutting, lying up - Entering enemy trenches - Careful and cautious return - entering trench - warn posts patrol is in - collection of information from every man - Landmarks - ditches - stars - enemy lights - notice wind -



 
