a5763231.html
190
)2(
searchlight and was attacked by machine guns and bombs.  With coolness and skill he extricated his party.  He furnished at the conclusion of the patrol's operation an excellent reconnaissance report.  On the next night he led a relief party along the German wire to look for some missing men of another patrol.  After methodically searching No Man's Land in the vicinity, in spite of searchlights playing on the gap in the enemy wire, together with machine guns, he discovered and brought back to our lines one of the missing men who had been wounded the night before andwas in a state of complete exhaustion."
 
Bar to Military Cross G/14/106, 28/11/1918. Auth.Aust. Corps. 97/643.
"With great dash and determination you led your company over ground swept by intense artillery and Machine Gun fire, and mopped up two enemy trenches.  Later another Company was added to your command and you succeeded in establishing yourself on the final objective.  Throughout you displayed very high qualities of leadership and by your marked courage and devotion to duty set a splendid example to your men."
 
   (Signed)  W.R.Birdwood.April 6.1919.
 
General Service Medal, Victory Medal (Silver Medal A.I.F. War Records Competition."
 
Details of anything Unusual in War Service.



(a)
During rest periods attached to British Formations and G.H.Q. as Raiding Expert.


(b)
2 months 47th Division B.E.F. under General Broadwood (Hero of Sanna Post, South Africa.)


(c)
1month 2nd Btn. & Bgde South Wales Borderers.


(d)
2 months G.H.Q. Central Training School, Le Havre.


(e)
11/2 months A.I.F. Staff Course, Tidworth, England.



 
Any published work giving Reference to,your War Service:  Yes, History of the 38th Battalion A.I.F. by Eric Fairey.
 
Any Military Appointment if any:  Captain, Reserve of Officers.
 
LEGACY CLUB.
 
Joined Legacy Club March 1926, Proposer F.Selleck, Seconder A.Stranaghan.
 
Offices held in Club. Vice President 1927-1928. Acting President 5 months 1928 (awarded Gold Badge) President two years Junior Legacy Club (Junior's Constitution) - Member Board of Management 1928-1929.  Chairman of Trustees, Legacy Boys Camp, Balnarring.
 
Special Services to Club:  Organized, Conducted two
