  
  Gallipoli  17:10:15 - prepared for a long wait.  We have been tutored up to it, so we can't suffer much disappointment.  The artillery and naval guns engage their usual targets during the day and night and opposing snipers have their usual duels, but beyond these episodes nothing occurs to mar the peacefulness of our life. 
  British Losses:  - Extract from "Spectator" Sept. 18, 1915. 
  Officers  -  Other Ranks  -  Totals  
 Killed or Died from Wounds - 4965 - 70,992 - 75,957 Wounded - 9973 - 241,086 - 251,059 Missing - 1501 - 53,466 - 54,967 
 Totals - 16439 - 365,544 - 381,983 
 18:10:15 - The days drag along quietly with the same unchanging routine, week after week.  We hear and see little of the enemy, who seem to be awaiting developments as we are.  Whether they are awaiting events with the same patience as our men are I do not know.  I have my doubts.  A miserable poorly-clad half-starved Turk deserter sneaked away from his lines the other night and claimed our protection and generosity.  He seemed to be semi-demented and his answers to questions were unintelligible in that they had no relevancy and were childlike in their simplicity.  These long dreary winter days in the trenches must be hellish torture to some of these poor devils.  Two barrels of water per Battalion a day they receive:  no meat, some bread occasionally and mealy biscuits they live and fight on (vide latest examinations of Turkish prisoners).  (It will be noted that the reports gathered from captured Turks in regard to their daily rations differ from time to time.  Whilst some declare that they are living well in the trenches and have plenty of water, etc. (see Page 7) others, as above, say that they are practically starved.  The explanation seems to be that some regiments are more favoured than others as regards food.) 
 The weather has now taken on its winter coat:  rain storms are frequent and the weather blows damp and bleak.  Grim angry clouds scud low overhead and threaten to deluge us throughout the day.  The passage of wild fowl has begun and flocks of all variety of game - geese, cranes, wild duck, quail and pigeons, pass over squeaking and squawking to one another as they battle against the fury of the elements.  The swallows have swarmed days ago, and left us for warmer climes (see Peninsula Press cutting No. 84 October 18, 1915). 
 Things are unusually dull.  Major Pinwell, Senior Staff Officer, pro. tem., sits and reads novels - Hilaire Belloc, Jack London, and all The General's literature when he can - "Tatler", "Life (New York)", "The Passing Show", "Sketch", "Graphic".  "Punch" seems to be his favourite. 
 19:10:15 - We evacuate 40 to 50 'sick' every day.  The actual casualties do not average 10 a day at present in the Division. 
 20:10:15 - In conversation with Captain Mair this morning (G.S.O. 3) he remarked upon the contrast between Divisional Headquarters in Gallipoli and those in France.  "The latter are invariably in some chateau or country residence", he said, "six or seven miles back from the firing line and if a Staff Officer wants to take his breakfast across the road he calls his motor car, so to speak.  A Staff Officer is very seldom seen in the firing line" he concluded. 
 Wintry conditions now prevail - a high wind howled throughout the night and this morning blew with tempestuous force from all quarters.  A strong wind here plays the devil with our dugouts, especially those of frail build  The nature of the country 