  
  Gallipoli  28:8:15 - Towards early morn a light dew descends and heralds the close approach of winter. 
 30:8:15 - Sent to Australian and New Zealand Divisional Headquarters and taken on Divisional Staff as Clerk to Colonel Braithwaite, D.S.O. (General Staff Officer, 1st Class). 
 3:9:15 - Have just heard that the troopship "Southland" has been torpedoed on her way here with some of the 6th Australian Infantry Brigade on board.  The Officer Commanding was drowned. 
 4:9:15 - Later intelligence re "Southland" is that when torpedoed the men took to the boats.  They afterwards retook to the steamer, which was able to steam to Mudros.  The Brigadier died from exposure and the casualties totalled only 19. 
 I am now surrounded with Generals, Colonels, Majors, and all the elite of military officialdom.  Generals Chauvel, Russell & Godley met last night and exchanged confidences.  The breezy chatter of these gentlemen reached my ears frequently, and General Chauvel was not loth to borrow matches from me, for which he thanked me with abundant courtesy. 
 I caught the following from a little breezy humour exchanged between General Chauvel and a few other of his contemporaries - 
 General Chauvel:  Have you any matches, Pinwill? - No.  (turning to me) Rhodes, just give The General some matches, will you? 
 Colonel Essen:  How are you getting on for feed, General?  - Oh, so-and-so, I could relish some juicy roast beef and green peas. 
 Chorus:  Ha!  Ha!  Ha! 
 Major Doddington:  What has happened to all our correspondence and "billet doux" lately? 
 General Russell:  I am afraid mine has perished on the high seas. 
 Major Pinwell:  I received several parcels to-day, tobacco, damn it.  There might have been some lolly or cake.  Oh! by the way, Kettle (to a young Staff Officer distinctly "militaire")  Don't forget tea at 4 p.m. to-morrow, and some cake. 
 Kettle:  I shall be punctual to the minute. 
 General Godley:  (in the distance)  Can't you get some beer or porter, Ryrie?  (to his Aide-de-Camp)  - Yes, Sir. 
 The General:  Well, get it, my dear fellow, get it. 
 Kettle to Doddington:  When did you have a bath last.  I had one on the Hospital Ship this afternoon. 
 Doddington:  How delightful - but it is so long ago since I enjoyed that luxury I would consider it sacrilege to put my clothes on again if I had one now. 
 The Administrative & Executive control of the New Zealand and Australian Division has been entrusted to Officers of the New Zealand Forces, of whom The General Staff is entirely composed.  Gentlemen all, and indefatigable workers, ever courteous amidst an ever-flowing rush of arduous duty, they have tackled and borne this huge responsibility with untiring zeal and uncommon skill, and the splendidly organised system which they have now set up is indisputable evidence of their fitness for the job. 
 H.M.S. "Endymion" shelled the "Nek" and portion of Battleship Hill near Walker's Ridge at 5 this afternoon.  She stood well into the beach. 
 Official news re attack on Hill 60 (dated 3:9:15) 27th to 29th August - Hill 60, a little to the north of Kaiajik Aghala:- 