
[At the top of this and following pages of this letter is the word "Girls". Not transcribed.]
in which a full sheet picture is of "In Pharoe Land".  Norman Lindsay depicts two pyramids, on each of which ascending and descending are to be seen men and horses, the former with guns, boiling a billy, with band instruments, camels, stretcher-bearers, with the face & head of George Reid after the manner of the Sphinx in the top right hand corner.  The donkey was neglected, Lindsay's mind had not got so far as the Egyptian donkey.  The picture is clever as a skit upon the way in which the pyramids are patronised by the kahki clad division.  It was probably Mrs. Knowles of Melbourne who sent it to me.  It was good and thoughtful of her.  I shall write to thank her.
Mrs. Fraser sent me a copy of the Daily Mail, London, of date, not the D.M. but the Weekly Dispatch of date Febry 7th 1915.  I shall write thanking her too.
The Colonel is away this afternoon or I should have gone for a trip somewhere, however cannot be helped, shall rest instead.
1-3-15, 2 a.m. No letters have reached me it was mentioned at dinner tonight that a mail had reached Cairo from London this morning and that letters might come to us tomorrow.
For some reason or another, I have not been well for about a week, and this afternoon I felt wretched, however a sleep from 8 p.m. to midnight has left me better than I have felt for many days.  I trust that God will keep me in good health that a few more years of strenuous work may be added to my life's output.  Of course if it be ordained otherwise, then His medicine must be taken gracefully, & my remark will be content.
As a few days hence my opportunities for sending on letters may be prevented, I have run off short notes to Dr. Paton, Dr. Arthur, Jim Roach, Mr. Bridge, Mr. Hurley, Dr. Fox, George Reid, & R. Arnott, each of which carries my hopes that it may be delivered in due course.
Troops have been leaving Camp all day, bound for somewhere on the Mediterranean shore whence they may be shipped for a place near to the