
window some 300 yards away, is an Egyptian & a saddled donkey.  I watched the saddle harness removed from the beast which was then taken a few yards along, several directions were given which made me think - "Oh! He is bidding the donkey to lie down" - after a few moments the animal prostrate made attempt to roll, he did not get over, sundry gentle kicks were applied to him but he made no further attempts.
9-5 a.m.  The beast is up again & is being rubbed with a cloth by his driver.  A docile donkey you will remark to one another.  No doubt the saddle will be placed upon his back directly, & mayhap the owner who is twice as big as the animal will be carried up the hill.  The command always rises to my lips when a big man riding on a small donkey passes me - "Get off and carry him!"  Col. Bird wishes me to go to the pyramids of [blank] ten miles away.  Asked how we were to travel, he replied - "On a donkey." - "Oh, no thanks, would not ride on a donkey." - "He is quite a pleasant beast to carry one." - "Not for me anyhow." - Must to the hospital.
This is Monday with you 7-55 p.m., you will probably be upstairs after dinner.  With us 12-20 p.m.  My hospital round has been finished, and as far as I know at present, 1 p.m. for lunch is the next item on the day's programme.
No letters.  Many of us has threatened to make a sacrifice of one of the clerks in the office unless within few days we receive our letters
A new field ambulance has arrived.  Between my window and the village, half a mile distant, the wagons are drawn up, the horses are tethered, the flags are flying, some of the tents are in position, & all is bustle on the piece of ground alloted to chosen for them.
Send me copies of your photographs should you have them taken.
Good bye!  Good bye!!!  Good bye!!!!!
Shall post this immediately after lunch with the hope that despatch to you may be early.
My soul crys for blessings upon.  May each of you live long doing much good in the world, leaving it with an honoured name.
My best wishes for my friends.  To Maria my benedictions.  To each of you heaps of love & loads of kisses.
From your loving & affectnat. FareeJohn B. Nash
The Misses NashMacquarie St.SydneyN. S. Wales