 [Page 249] 
 air, ether, or other gases that intervene between the moon and me must be quite clear.  A look with the field glasses.  Yes.  She is brought much nearer but is not improved.  The details of the blue areas are greater, the apparent figures are split up and the pleasure of imagining "the man in the moon" are taken away.  Give her for me as she seems with the unaided eyes.  Say you the same.  Before you remember there was a song in one of the pantomines which caught the public taste "I'm in love with the man in the moon". 
 Availing themselves of the brightness and the glory of the evening Colonel Braund and a large party from here have gone for a night picnic to the pyramid.  Good luck to them, may they enjoy themselves! 
 Rumour is rife again that the Australians will soon be on the move from Egypt.  Wonder is there any truth midst the sentences produced by the lieing jade?  My anxiety to get away is not so great just now as it was three weeks ago,  because I am eating, and enjoying, plenty of food for me, the world was not much worth living in then, it is right enough today, yesterday &amp; let me hope for tomorrow. 
 2-4-15. Please  send  take the photographs of the Nubian lad to Dr Armitt, at 34 Elizabeth Street, for the Australian Medical Gazette, they are in the package with other pictures. 
 This is Good Friday. "The sin of the whole world is essentially the sin of Judas &ndash; Men do not disbelieve their Christ: but they sell him."  The Ethics of the Dust. It must be a holiday in the lines, because all day long the road to the pyramids, and the Grand Pyramid,  Cheops , have been crowded with myrth making Kahki clad figures, riding 
 [Lieutenant Colonel George Frederick Braund, general merchant and Member of the Legislative Assembly, NSW (MLA), of Neutral Bay, Sydney, joined the Army on 15 August 1914 and embarked from Sydney on 18 October 1914 on HMAT A23 Suffolk in command of the 2nd Infantry Battalion, 1st Brigade. He was killed in action at Gallipoli on 4 May 1915.] 
 