
27-4-15. Colonel Martin is away each day now.  It may be that he is acting in place of Surgeon General Williams who has gone to London.  I have no official information upon the matter, but from hints that have been dropped at the dining table by the Colonel himself and junior officers I believe that there is some arrangment.  He never has had the decency to tell me anything & I have got to the stage when I do not care.  I am simply awaiting my time for something to turn up, having confidence that it will come along and eventuate all right.  The nuisance is that by the uncertainty I am tied to my post here in order to protect myself against a weak commanding officer, the worst of all scourges.  However wait & see.
In this evenings issue of "La Bourse Egyptienne", one of the best of the newspapers published here, I have read:-/"Les pertes subies par les Canadiens, au cours des journees de jeudi, vendredi, et Samedi s'elevent &agrave; 21 officiers tues et 59 blesses.  La liste des tues, publiee ce soir comprend le lieutenant-colonel McHarg (Vancouver) qui etait un remarquable tireur, le colonel Birchall (de l'etat-major), le lieutenant-colonel Boyle (Alberta).  Les hauts faits des Canadiens, accompagnes des chaleureuses felicitations du Roi Georges, ont ete transmis telegraphiquement au duc de Connaught.  Le plus vif enthousiasme regne dans tout le Dominion.  Les autorites sont submergees par les offres de recrues.  Non seulement les vides ont ete immediatement combles, mais aussi un nouveau mouvement tres important se dessine dans l'enr&ocirc;lement." - Reuter -
[Translation: The losses suffered by Canadians during Thursday, Friday and Saturday amounted to 21 officers killed and 59 wounded. The list of killed, published tonight includes Lt. Col. McHarg (Vancouver) who was an outstanding shot, Colonel Birchall (Military Staff), Lieutenant-Colonel Boyle (Alberta). Deeds of Canadians, accompanied by the warm congratulations of King George, were transmitted by telegraph to the Duke of Connaught.  The greatest enthusiasm reigns throughout the Dominion. The authorities are deluged by offers of recruits. Not only were there immediate offers, a very important new movement is emerging in enlistment."]
These severe losses make one anxious as to what the wires will transmit within brief space now, as the result of the contact of the Australian troops