 [Page 393] 
 Jack McGlynn [McGlinn] has been for several weeks at the Dardanells.   Wonder what his luck has been?   Hope the best, &amp; that he will get safe home.   No list of the killed in battle has yet been published here.  John Patrick McGlynn was in S. Africa, and did good work.  He is a first class soldier. 
 Mrs MacMillan &amp; her husband are always desirous of being kind to you girls, they lived at Macquarie House when we lived there many years ago, Mr. McM writes under the pseudonym "Gossip". I must write to Dr. Maitland some day soon. Your sentences referring to Jerrom and the donkey will be read to him. 
 Many thanks for the papers referring to Mr. Flowers and Mr. Willis.  I am glad Holman had grit enough to stand by his promise to Willis.   I must write telling him so.   Willis is a true Briton. 
 For your good wishes I thank you, &amp; reciprocate them all.  Your letter was of the best.  God bless you.  Now to bed as I have answered the letters from three of you, &amp; shall reply to my Tabbies when it comes. Good night! [A line of Xs and Os.] Good night!!! [A line of Xs and Os.] Good night [A line of Xs and Os.] [A line of Xs and Os.] 
 22-5-15.   Tabbie's did not come, shall expect it by the next mail. 
 The Orsova was timed outwards on the 20th. Wonder did she pass along the Canal a few days ago?  If so she will have letters from me for you.   Please convey my regards to Mgr Weston.   Ask him did he receive my letter written Care of the Orient Coys agents at Suez?   It should have been delivered to him as he was going north. 
 Today is published in the papers account of the death of General Bridges.   What will you in Australia think of the casualties.   The list must be growing each day.  We see little of the names in print but we hear about such and such officers having been killed.  Some men were telling me tonight, that they saw Colonel Braund in the firing line and that there was no braver officer.  He was rather severe. 
 [End of this letter; possibly a page is missing.] 
 