 [Page 391] 
 I thought the D. T. had been glad to print the Egyptian wonder. Never mind, you liked it and the pleasure of writing for you is my chief recompense. 
 Well in every way &amp; comfortable in my quarters. I now wonder how I put up with that set of savages for so long.   No more about them I shall anxiously await copies of your photographs. 
 [A line of Xs and Os.] 
 Hope you entertained MacNamara before he took you to the theatre.  It was good of him to do so.  He is a generous chap in all regards. 
 You giddy girl to gamble at the races.   At Alexandria races are held each Saturday now.   During the winter months there was lots of racing here.   I should have liked to, but did not have opportunity to be present at a meeting.   The Arab horses ought to have been worth seeing.   My idea you know, is that all girls should wear boots that the ankles may be sufficiently supported. 
 Strange that people should be calling to see me.  Where has Dickey been?  I think that I know Dr. Darling slightly. 
 Flowers will struggle through as the New President, not a dignified or well informed chairman, but as men are he can pass.   I noted Mr. Holman &amp; others talking about abolishing the Legislative Council. Such may come about some day, but the time is not yet.   Wonder how has young Fred Flowers come through at Gallipoli?   Many of the Ambulance men have been killed. 
 The rain will have been very useful where it has fallen in Australia, its fall brings prosperity in its train. Some day I must again write to M. Chayet.  Glad to learn that his wife &amp; sons were not suffering too much from the incidence of war.  My regards to him.   The struggle in Europe gives no indications as to when it will end.   Not this year think I. 
 Please thank the Ushers from me for being so good to you. It is sweet to see members of a family polite considerate and happy amongst themselves, nothing pleases 
 [Fred Flowers (1864-1928), house painter and politician, was appointed to the NSW Legislative Council in 1900, and became president of the Council in 1915 following the death of Sir Francis Suttor. His son, Private Fred Flowers, No 187, 25, a painter from Kensington, NSW, embarked from Sydney on 20 October 1914 on HMAT A14 Euripides with the 1st Field Ambulance. He served at Gallipoli and in France and Belgium, and was killed in action on 18 September 1917.] 
 