
[At the top of this page is the word "Girls". Not transcribed.]
Les Felicitations du Kaiser.  Amsterdam 18 ao&ucirc;t.   Le Kaiser a telegraphie a Hindenberg lui exprimant sa vive appreciation pour la prise de Kovno (?) - Le premier et plus puissant rempart de la ligne interieur des defences russes.   Le Kaiser a confere l'ordre, Pour le Merite, au general Eichorn et les, feuilles de ch&ecirc;ne, du meme ordre au general Litzman. R."Having had so much experience during twelve months of the Russian as a champion liar, one cannot but think that Kovno has fallen into the hands of the German generals.   Many of the places just written were fortresses of the very first order, yet they have been unable to resist the onslaught of the Teuton for more than brief span.   Then why has not the Queen Elizabeth, with the other ships operating at the Dardanelles in the first instance, blown the forts on either side of the straits to pieces?   The question should be simple enough to answer.  With the knowledge inside my cerebrum no answer, worth writing, can be given.   Why, oh why?   The facts stand out grimly and give the judicious cause for much concern.   We can but hope for the best, putting shoulders to the wheels of battle which cannot be pushed back.
Some newspapers came this evening from Mrs Fraser and Mr Hyman.  I have not yet looked at them, but shall do so tomorrow, or when I am going to bed.
In these parts the world rolls round as usual.  I had a visitor to lunch to day.  Major Dr. Purdy, city health officer to the city of Sydney, he has been connected with the Divisional Amunition Column.   He has been to the Dardanelles and has come back much shaken as to his nerves and having lost considerably in weight.   We had a chat, during which I endeavoured to elicit information in regard to many persons and events in which my interest lay.   He is difficult to manage because he has an I that fills much space in his thoughts, insinuating itself into the talk at every point, yet he is a good fellow when one has time to listen to his statements as to what he has done and thought.  He talks about being soon at the Peninsula.  Good man.
My hospital is running all right, 610 patients with me tonight, far to many yet it cannot be helped, and each one has to be cared for and treated.
Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night.[A line of Xs and Os.]Carrie dear. Joseph dear. Kitty dear.
23.8.15   Sorry cannot add more   Too busily occupied or too sleepy.  Sorry.Col. Paton took tea with me last night.  We had a long chat.  The New Guinea Campaign does not appear to have been a satisfactory business.  Good bye.  God bless you all.   May Fortune be always deep in love with you each.  Heaps of love & loads of kisses from your [indecipherable] fatherJohn B Nash.
[Major, later Lieutenant Colonel, John Smith Purdy, 42, health officer, of Point Piper, NSW, embarked from Melbourned on 20 October 1914 on HMAT A9 Shropshire, as Medical Officer with Headquarters, Divisional Ammunition Column. He returned to Australia in mid-1918.
Colonel John Paton CB VD CMG, (1867-1943), merchant and soldier of Newcastle, NSW, embarked from Brisbane on HMAT A60 Aeneas on 29 June 1915 in command of the 7th infantry Brigade, 25th infantry Battalion. He served at Gallipoli and in France.]
