
[The top of this page has been torn. Only fragments of the first one or two sentences can be seen.]
the effect that Dr. KeltyI have not receivedFor ever so long. If the230,000 it will help them along for a little.I did not know that Burnage had been wounded.  I believed that Larkin of our parliament had been killed, but mention was made by Dr. Arthur of his still being alive.  It is so?
How will prize the roses, the mention of them sends my mind back thinking of many happy episodes happening during the passed thirty years.  Ah me, how time does fly, and we old chaps run on into the seer and yellow.   Please give my best wishes to Mr. Macdonald and his family, and say that I hope to see them all in good health some day.   To the Kennas likewise.   To Mr. & Mrs. Parsons also.   4000, and a pension of 150 per annum is better than nothing for any one, even for the wife of a late member of parliament.   What nonsense they do write in the papers about the manufacture of shells in Australia, why it would be necessary to import all the material out of which to make them, neither machiner[y] nor workmen are to be found in your country.  I shall answer the letter that came from M. O'Connor as soon as possible.  Love to her.
I saw General Ford to day, he said "You have made order out of chaos in your hospital", he was consulting me about what it were best to do with a crowd of patients, he thought that I had put him on the right track.   Good.   I may get on now.   There was no chance for me with that swine Martin.
[A line of Xs and Os.]Tabbie. Joseph. Kitty.
Tabbie dear:Glad that the lovely fire burned brightly to keep Tabbie, Joey warm.  Good fire.  Maria is clever girl to stick to the Dickson people so long.  The old girl Dixson was a friend to Hyman.  The mention of heaps of flowers makes me think of the Wallsend and Sydney gardens.   Tell Pat Watt that I am not playing in her backyard.  The whole of the railway suburbs must be in flower this year, the rain pleased the shrubs so much that they set about blooming in appreciation.
The sugar obtainable here is very good, we mostly have the pale brown in crystals, I tell the quarter-master to get such because it has greater sweetening powers.  I thought that you had power to deal with lands, however you soon will have now.  No business matter is of any trouble to me.  Please advise me at once of all that is happening in this regard.  I cabled you to day, and in a business supplement shall refer to the subject matter of the wire.  You have received it before now, because it was handed in about 11 a.m.   You