 [Page 468] 
 Lieut. Col. Nash. 
 C/o D. M. S. Cairo Egypt 6th July 1915. 
 My dear Girls: 
 This morning my weekly envelope was posted to you.   During the afternoon the motor called at Gazeirah and found there ten letters there for me, six being from you, one from Buddie, one from Dr. Paton, Dr. Fox, Matron Sherwood, and Jack MacNamara. 
 Caggie dear:  Yours dated 25-5-15.   Cold you write, that would be a change from here, though one should not complain.  Jo got Maria a position; Good Joseph.  The dixsons have enough money to command china or anything else.  In tobacco there has been much monetary profit during the last half century.  Thank Mr and Mrs Franki for being so kind to you girls.  You had an interesting afternoon at the range.  I have encamped ther more than once so know it well.  You must be quite up in the science and art of war, knowing so many soldier laddies interests you in the matter.  Mollie wrote that kitty had been with her at the convent, but did not mention that she was staying with Rene Silk 
 I have a man in hospital who was on both the Triumph and the Majestic.   Is he not lucky to be alive? Sorry that my Joseph was not very well when you were writing.   I hope that she received my wire for her birthday. Holman and Meagher are both clever men.  I received a letter from the latter this afternoon.  Max Herz will not like to have to move about with an escort.   Glad that you met Dr. Kennedy, and that he was well, he should be here soon.  My best wishes to Belle and Moxham. 
 Of 26-5-15.   The copies of te Sydney M. H. reached me before your letters, looking through them I read many items that were of interest to me.   Many thanks my dear for your thoughtfulness.  It is edifying of you to pray often for the soldiers who momentarily are dying for the cause of their country.  Yes my dear 'tis a time of terrible happening, and I fear me that we have not yet seen the worst of them, when the struggle royal [words missing] of sufferings will accrue to men and [words missing] spared. Mr. 
 [The bottom of the page is torn] 
 