
was asking me about him. If he represents the minds of the Commonwealth people, they have ideas about enlarging my hospital, on this score it is probable that the British authorities will have the last word. Most of the patients here now are from English regiments, about 400 out of 550. I must have a chat with Featherstone before he goes away.
Mrs Fraser sent to me a lot of material of the best. Two suits of the pyjamas are in my trunk, they will do me all right for a long time.
When you wrote the gardens in Neutral Bay must have been splendid, - wish I could just drop in to see you for a few hours -, while the promise for the crops in the country was of the very best. I hope that the result has been beyond the expectations of the most sanguine. Hurrah!Sorry that the singeing iron went so near to burning Ivy, but where it was not applied dextrously to the skin with cauterising effect she suffered naught.
My regards to Mrs Suttor when you see her. She & her husband have been separated for a long time. I know nothing about them, because information of a personal nature in regard to people seldom reaches my ears, and never has. Why? Do not know unless it be that my life has always been fully occupied with work and study, and with the little episodes that have befallen me on lifes journey, not more perhaps than I deserved & certainly not greater than I have been able to carry. People have always been to me as considerate and kind as my desserts deserts warranted, therefore in regard to others their charity towards me deserves from me due recognition and gratitude. I fancy that there is far more real charity 'mongst the lowly and humble, than 'mongst the exalted & wealthy. It may of course that my mission in life has brought me more into contact with the former, certainly they are always ready and willing to help one another as far as lies in their power. It has give me cause for admiration many a time and oft by day & by night
[Major Harold Bruce Suttor, 34, wool broker of neutral bay, NSW, embarked from Sydney on 19 December 1914 on HMAT A31 Ajana with the 7th Light Horse Regiment.]
