 [Page 626] 
 Enteric troubles mostly. The majority of sick men walk on board but several stretchers have gone too while I have been writing here. 
 The mule, of the medium sized variety, is the beast of burthen that does the carrying and dragging here. They move the food for man beasts and guns. Docile manageable and willing they require but directing by the soldiers from India, mostly turbaned men from the Punjab who have charge of them. There are but few horses to be seen. All animals are in good condition. 10.30 a.m. The booming of the great guns, on both sides, has ceased, even the rifle fire is stilled. The combatants must have wearied of the contest. The sick men more or less wearied and on stretchers continue to file on to the barge. Ah me the pity of it all. Those masses of metal the warships move lazily, apparently, along the horizon. The men on the shore I note are busy unloading and loading what is required  on shore, while  The men of the medical unit are performing their allotted task. Boom!!! A warship speaks. Boom!!! Another warship breaks in upon the still atmosphere that overspreads the sea. Boom!!! A third. 
 I must away to explore another portion of the fighting line. For the present goodbye. 
 One sentence more. Last evening it was notified that Sir Ian Hamilton is leaving this command, and that another General officer has taken his place. You already know more about it than we. The laden hospital barge has moved away, bound for the hospital ship. 
 6 p.m. And this is the anniversary of the birth of Kafoline [Kathleen]. Good my Kafoline. May God bless you and grant to you many many happy returns of the day. 
 [Sir Ian Standish Monteith Hamilton, 1853-1947, British general, was Commander in Chief of the Mediterranean Expeditionary Force at Gallipoli. The failure of the campaign resulted in his being removed from command on 14 October 1915. He was replaced on 15 October 1915 by General Charles Monro, who recommended the evacuation of all troops from Gallipoli.] 
 