
[At the top of this and following pages of this letter is the word "Girls". Not transcribed.]
Neither Dr Paton nor you has expressed opinion upon the subject.A letter came from Ted, Norrie last week. He was up to 10.11-15 all right. I replied and sent to him some materials that he asked for.
When writing some notes recently for the "Australian Journal of Pharmacy" published in Melbourne I put in a paragraph about Ken Garrick. I hope that Mrs Rouse will see it. Ask her to get Mrs Garrick to keep an eye on the paper for it. My regards to the old lady. She is a wonder!
Glad that you liked the beads, they will be uncommon at your end. I hope that you have put strong new thread to keep them together, otherwise they may be scattered at any moment.What a long time Mrs Franki has been sick. Hope that she is perfectly recovered now. My regards to all of them.What a wonder my Kafoline is? No letter from her this mail.Joe Vial had bad luck! R.I.P. What has become of Tim & Dave? No copy of "The Mirror" has yet reached me.
Mrs Travers comes from Cork City, Ireland, & still her voice has much of the brogue in the sounds, though long association with people who speak very different dialects from her native one, has given her syllables that are entire discord with the original notes. Hers is a peculiar mixture. You will find that she still retains the goodness of the Irish heart. Glad that you called to see the family in their home. Travers is amongst the best. I have always liked him.
Hollywood is all right. Anxious to get back home. He has had enough of Egypt and war. Dont blame him! I think that he is wise if he can get home.
It was good to visit Anzac. Sorry Would like to have another opportunity to go again. No date to letter.
Joseph dear:/Your letter is headed "219 Macquarie St 13.10.15". Many thanks for it my dear I am in the best of mental and physical health waiting for work. Unemployed!
[Major, later Lieutenant Colonel, Edward Creer Norrie DSO, served with the 19th Battalion at Gallipoli and later with the 25th Battalion in France. He was mentioned in despatches in November 1917 and awarded the DSO. He returned to Australia at the end of 1918. He also served in WWII.
Company Sergeant Major Kenneth Hannell Garrick, born in 1889 in Newcastle, NSW, a chemist (pharmacist) from Collingwood, Melbourne, embarked from Melbourne on HMAT A14 Euripides on 10 May 1915 with the 24th Infantry Battalion. He returned to Australia in November 1917. He also served in WWII.]
