
June 23
Arrived in Marseilles about 7 a.m. this morning. It looks awfully pretty from the Harbour and I bought a set of PC’s from a boy who came on board. You can only see a small portion of the City from the Harbour as it is very hilly. We disembarked at 4 p.m. and marched through the worst quarter of the City for about 1 ½ miles to the filthiest camp I have ever been in The earth consists of burnt coal dust from factories which we have to sleep in and one can imaging the state we are in. I have been put on lime piquet again tonight. No leave being granted

June 24
Had a fairly busy morning loading train. Got away about midday in 2nd Class cars very comfortable. We are pulled up now at Orange having lunch about 4 p.m. The people are awfully nice to us. We have passed through some awfully pretty country the garden of France Avignon especially was a beautiful old town. We have also passed through L’estaque, Miramas and Arles. We have been travelling along the Rhone for a long time and the coastal scenery for a time from Marseilles was glorious. Notre Dame shewed out well when we were leaving See Jany 31st.

June 25
We passed through Lyon last night and stayed about an hour but it was too dark to see anything. We pulled up at a small siding about 6 am for breakfast Passed through Chalon. The country is still glorious but much flatter now. We passed through a very pretty place named Beaumiere and also a village appropriately named Fleurville. We are now at Dijon very fine town judging from our limited view of it. The scenery after leaving Dijon see Jany 31st & 4 Feby 1st

June 26 
We passed through Paris early this morning but of course couldn’t see anything of it. Now at Vernon Had the slowest trip to Havre I have ever experienced landing here about 4 pm. We have unloaded onto a wharf so it looks as though we are embarking for England. We are just going to have something to eat as we have had nothing since last night. About 9.30 p.m. we marched about 4 miles into the outskirts of Havre The Camp is all slush and mud and we are all wet through. We don’t get our blankets until 1 a.m.


