
and a helmet, and the appearance of a stern street guide who'd take us there for 2F's apiece divided us. - we knew Wilson wouldn't come there so of two evils we chose the least. They weren't bad though, and we had the satisfaction of seeing for 2F what the greater part of the camp had paid 5 for.
After Notre Dame de [la] Gard [e] we had tea at 1.65 - most of the unit rolled up as usual - Roach and Rodgers disappeared in to the village and Alan and myself wandered round till 5.15.  God alone knows how I managed it, but I arrived home with 3.60 francs - and 1.30 of that has to go to Bob for laundry and 1F to Jefferson.
This morning early I wrote a letter to the CO, something like this
Sir
Anticipating yesterday the usual pay, I was in debt considerably to certain members of the unit - and in consideration of this, respectful application is made for payment of the remainder due - even should this necessitate the further reduction of following pay.
Unexpectedness of the reduction is the only excuse I have to offer for this un-military like application.Pte. F.M. Molony, 8087
[Note in margin]  "Nothin' doin'".
- wether it will work or not remains to be seen. It ought to though - since Campbell got the full pay and he had been in clink for 14 days which if it hadn't been cut down to 7 days would have left him there yesterday. Roach is in the same jam and Heaven alone knows how many more are in the same condition.
"Amen - Brother" Cole was away "for one --- hour" this morning --- "it's a --- shame --- !" and the water for tea, that should have been boiling at 12.55 was boiling at 1.40:  the Messes roared - so did Colie. Three buckets each mess took down as usual at 12.45 and at about 1.20 each mess took away an empty.  - at 1.30 another so only leaving one to be filled - the chaps naturally wouldn't wait - but they left Colie their regards. Frank Hungerford was the last to take away an empty bucket and Cole saw him: it was the last straw.  The Messes roaring, he losing his block, and then burning his finger made him tearful.
"Brother it breaks my --- heart - to see you taking that bucket away." !
'Well Coli it's no use leaving it because all the mess have gone: said a rank.
"I know brother." (tearfully), - "and that's what breaks my heart." (masterly) "its my fault, I know, but (tragically and with genuine feeling at being able to shoulder the blame onto other peoples shoulders) "it's  ---- hard lines if a poor --- can't get away for one --- hour without the --- letting the fire go out."  and then masterly again. " --- I suppose there's only one thing to do, and that's I'll have never to go out!"
"Amen - brother Cole's heart breaking was like the Kaiser's "tears" for Louvain.
N.B. I should have written "'eart" not heart - thank the Lord he doesn't come from " our 'arbour city".