  
 27. With 3F. borrowed from Peach yesterday afternoon I went into Marseille to see Louis Raemaekers exhibition of war cartoons.  1.50F. was for a new glass to [indecipherable] - they"re damned expensive to keep up on15F. fortnight. 
 Entrance 1F., Catalogue 1F.  I merely entered for 1F. 
 The Cartoons - colored prints signed Louis Raemaekers were arranged as a frieze level with the eye right round the room numbering 1 to 100.  No note of explanation accompanied the drawings, but in very few cases was this necessary. 
 As cartoonist - especially of the war - I"ve always looked to Lindsay and Low of the Bulletin - Partridge of Punch, Carter and Walker of America, and isolated - Dyson - his Kultur Cartoons - and Sullivan - his Kaiser Garland.  Raemaeker I first heard mentioned by a patient at Ghezireh and he lent me an article from the Times - if I remember rightly hailing him as the cartoonist of the war.  The first cartoons of his I saw were a few in number of Land and Water - especially drawn for the paper, but then disappointed more than equalled anticipation.  Then early in April last in Blanchards bookshop in Marseille I saw 6 numbers of a collection - published in Dutch - of his work:  6 amongst the collection were in colour - the remainder in black and white;  these were certainly a revelation to me and only the price and the instruction to Angus to keep me a set of his stuff stopped me then buying. 
 Lindsay"s type - his pagan goddesses, his Muses - his women - such girls and larrikins are all of the same great mother:  its almost impossible to misplace his work.  Dyson the same - although one of Lindsays I thought for the moment was his.  Low is as rigorous as either, but his style at times might be mistaken for either Lindsays or Dysons. 
 Minns is merely trading under his name as a colorist:  his cartoon drawings are poor.  Raemaekers is in this exhibition the Raemaekers of 100 moods but all moods of varying degrees of hatred and contempt for Germany and her land:  some are humorous, satirical, but the terrible and horror filled ones prevail.  Of the last, one in particular arrests:  against a bloody wall two murdered men lean in death:  on the floor is a demented woman with all hell in her eyes kneeling and vacantly staring above the corpse of a young girl, dead, stabbed in the side.  Another picturing madness is of two soldiers in hospital beds demented by agony of mind from [indecipherable] - a hospital nurse who has broken down, and the doctor in the background. 
 Two in particular are intensely fine pieces of beautiful design and color work.  One - a study in sea green of dead bodies sinking, and last breath bubble rising:  evidently, inspired by the [indecipherable].  The uses of his mediums are as varied as his styles of using them.  One in particular particularly appealed to me:  it was No. 3 and represented the figure of death - and the scythe moving down the men at war:  the horizon in flame and the figure surprisingly unconscious of the horror of his doing.  The piece had for a background as actual a piece of color work in soft rose-buff as I"ve ever seen and the drawing of the figure was perfect.  The cartoon had all the beauty of an etching, a water color and a pen work in it. 
 One of the cartoons was used as a poster - Germany"s last tango - W to E and from E to W.  It was the already famous cartoon of Germans tangoing with the [indecipherable] figure of death.  There as in the 'Mower" cartoon the drawing of Death was superb. 
 Far and away above all others is Raemaeker the cartoonist of the war. 