  
 79  June 23 1916 Going on duty a couple of nights ago I read in the Day report book that "Brown was frightened of Nobbs".  Brown"s been wounded 4 times and Nobbs laughs at him whenever he comes into the ward.  Brown"s 6.4 and Nobbs about 5.4. 
 80  July 4 1916 Boulogne, Wimereax, July 4 '16 Left Marseille midday Thursday last and arrived here Saturday 7 p.m.:  and took over at once No. 5 Convalescent of the tommies.  The night was very clear and the cliffs of England - "Blighty" - could easily be seen. 
 Unloading train, loading and unloading steam lorries of hosp. equip. all morning and part of afternoon of July 2, and the remainder of afternoon re stacking bales of bedding and tents.  100 beds equipped and notice sent on to the Front line casualty stations. 
 July 3, equipping more wards and convoy expected at 6 p.m.:  arrived at 9.40 and about 120 admitted - wounds redressed, washed and sent on midnight to enship at Boulogne for "Blighty".  More convoys arrived early this morning and evacuation and more convoys have been going on till 4.30 p.m.  Wards are rapidly becoming equipped and in surgical wards 90% of work done by us.  Sisters owing to disbandment at Mosset not available.  All cases stretcher. 
 What"s your mate?  Shrapnel leg - arm - back, etc., a high explosive bullet, shells, gassed, liquid fired etc.  Some cases horrible, especially shrapnel - torn legs and backs.  Stink of men horrible and septic wounds everywhere. 
 81 Bought today here self long promised Confessions of Opium Eater, and Contingent Ditties of F. Brown of the Canadians:  will read when have time.  Cashed 2 money order at Cox Co. here. 
 82 The Fine Art Society are publishing an edition de luxe of Raemaekers cartoons at 6.6.0:  must get hold of this through Time Book Club.  Will write when have time. 
 83 Yesterday Mr. fd.: asked me how I was, "Pretty well, Thanks Mr. A.":  "Have you been going out lately Frank" - in tone suggesting inquiry into origin of sore throat. 
 "No". "Then  you"ve been saving your money!" "Just what I haven"t been doing old chap" (hurriedly). "Can"t you lend us a couple then?"  Ye Gods!!! 
 Another way. 
 Make a bet we"ll be finished the war in 6 months:  someone takes it up at 5F.  "Then if you can bet 5F. lend us a couple - will you old chap?" 
 84  July 11 Sister Taranhan over talking to the German Prisoner - Patient": "You speak very good English"! "Yes Madam!  But I must remember my German, for I may need it in Australia in 4 years." - and for such a studied insult the Tommy guard didn"t even bayonet him. 
 Since coming into contact with these Boshes all my sympathy for the owners of the legs in the incinerator - filled with machine gun bullets from the big offensive - has gone.  Materlinck I follow now. 