  
 most certain without a doubt, but may turn never ending in consequences.  Jake [indecipherable] - even offered to let me take his leave next week and to change his course, and the other I don"t care to let him risk it. 
 I understand her exactly now, and have even a physical aversion for her.  Almost the same subject we discussed turning in these last two mornings, she brought up and ran them to death, with Jake I enjoyed them, with her it revolted me - yet she almost echoed our earlier yarnings.  Its horrible to have had her confidence to the extent I have this afternoon and then to seemingly hurriedly 'finish" it - yet it"s the only honorable way.  If her love is genuine - as I"m certain it is, it"d be worse for her in a week and horrible in a month if things carried on as lately.  When she originally dropped the hint that she enjoyed walking, and we asked her to come out to Wimille with us, I looked forward rather to a jolly time for the three of us - not an introduction to a minor tragedy. 
 After last night we decided to get her two books.  Jake, 'Don Juan" and self, "Venus and Adonis".  If I loved the girl it would be different, if I gave in to her now, or at any time it"d be mortal suicide.  The sooner the transfer comes through the better. 
 260  Oct. 19 Betty"s Birthday Jake brings back tonight a note addressed, "To Jake"s stable companion" - a hit at our Hotel.  'Dear Lord, Pax".  Pa with [indecipherable] untold till "perhaps some day when I"ll need your help and sympathy". 
 So the ironical note I struck in my note yesterday wasn"t too strong, but the tone generally was more necessary than I"d thought.  The reply is very charming - and slightly pathetic. 
 261 Letters from home, one from Mother, first for long while.  Gerald"s been evidently turned down altogether.  Yet if he can hold a commission in the Military, why doesn"t he train at Liverpool.  Tom still in camp, Aug. 1915 - Oct. 1916!!! 
 262 Jake, gone to Blighty for 10 days leave, and today finishes our week at the Hotel [indecipherable].  Instead of a week it seems more like ages but it"ll be a change getting back to a rolled up bed life again.  Getting away was funny, but tragic.  I had in all the world 2.78 - and was jolly hungry.  I"d asked Jake to tip the room girl, but evidently he hadn"t or had too well:  anyhow at 6 she wanted to bring me water, at 6.10 chocolate, and at 6.20 a massage and shampoo.  Someone rang for her and I bolted.  God knows what I"ve left - but hope its nothing essential.  As a 'souvenir" she has at least a book of Newbolt I"ve not read and a hair comb. 
 Received tonight from Sister Weigall the gloves I"d asked her to get - arrived two pairs of Dents leathers - wool lined and fur lined - and a soft wool muffler - both gloves and muffler just the thing, and jolly decent.  20 F. 
 Wrote to Harold New, will try him for a name for transfer to First Field.  In at the little Cafe Wimereax tonight for tea - three Tommies came and fearlessly ordered omelette of six eggs.  I"d a vision of Jake and a shot of our 12 egg omelette in front of me, in reality '[indecipherable] rolls 'em" [indecipherable]!  Somehow the Tommies there seemed very out of place - even the most casual observer would admit No. 2 owned the place - and shared it with six Tommy chaplains - two of them jolly decent chaps. 
 263 Last letter from Mother mentioned Doreen"s appearing in [indecipherable] but omitted her address.  Jake dead keen to meet her, so gave him a Dinkum introduction - hope to Heaven she at least remembers my name. 
 If he does manage to find her, I"ll lay a wager he"ll get on jolly well with her. 