  
 264 Wrote to Gerald last night.  I haven"t heard from him for over ten months.  If he has been absolutely turned down for all services and that says, its jolly hard on him, and can feel for him in every way.  But why doesn"t he manage a staff job at Liverpool - evidently Len has. 
 265  Oct. 23 Comes in tonight Evans as a patient, in the same case as self about the middle of last month.  That horribly curiously awful sensation at the back of the head, as though the brain were working quite independently of the body - a sense of compleat detachment from realities ordinary, and an insane longing to in a manner startling and fantastick and all.  After that can say in [indecipherable] if it hadn"t been for the brandy C. gave me I"d have had to have gone out to it. 
 266 Inspection extraordinary and unexpectedly - full kit and blankets.  King, very worried going through his stuff getting it ready - "Now lets see, what have I got that doesn"t belong to me." 
 267 Tonight arrives notification that cable sent last week has been forwarded Oct. 21.  Will write to Commonwealth Bank tonight. 
 268 Today through headquarters sent home three new issues of the "Anzac Book".  Sent Jake"s also.  Not till these copies have been in Australia a month is the issue to the Public to date - an issue in aid of some Military fund. 
 269 Last night had to run the two lines, Jake"s and own, both were almost empty after late evacuation, and I left them full this morning.  Hill"s in tonight in his place. 
 270 Today a Taube flew over - anti aircraft couldn"t hit it, it laughed and 'imshied. 
 271 Time and time again has this book missed destroyal, yet there hardly seems anything in worth preserving - though it may be interesting for an evening.  Apres la Guerre.  'Apres la Guerre" - shall there ever be an "Apres"?  Shall we ever get back to the dear land where the waratahs grow and the wattle bough blooms on the hill?  Its a consumation only to be wished.  Sometimes the homecoming seems quite certain, but more often it becomes the impossible dream of compleatness never to be realised. 
 272 Tonight no convoy yet in:  reading Lavengro - left off beginning of Sep., started in Aug.  Lavengro"s interesting, but oh so hopelessly lacking in a sense of humour.  I"d imagine him serious in all things and bespectacled and not a little of the lost in him for all his learning and intellect. 
 Tonight finished first vol. and started 2nd - the three reprinted in the one book. 
 273 Home mail in - big one from Mater - one from Dad and one from Betty - Dear Bet, that Native Rose made my heart ache - and your "poetry", almost [indecipherable], so fine was it - whom did you take for your model, Keats or Rosetti?  But the Native Rose will go with me till we all see the live Native Rose. 
 274 In an Illustrated London News in the tent tonight saw for first time this year, some of Pennnell"s new work - [indecipherable] and still [indecipherable] - not unlike his series "Panorama".  The last I saw of his was an exhibition at Anthony Horderns last year, of his Frank Temples and Pagan ruins.  Some of these were exceptionally lovely.  He and Brangwin are I should say the two leading impressionistic lithographers and etchers in the world.  I don"t know whose I prefer, but Brangwin"s coloring and superb grouping would I think place him first.  His lithographs are rougher than Pennell, but lose very little by that. 