  
 28 Yesterday after the exhibition of Raemaekers, I walked up to the large Cathedral fronting the Rue Cannebire.  The first time I was inside was one Wednesday evening with George and Arthur Fellows.  Their service was on and a few of the Altar lights were burning:  at night, with the candles burning the altar appeared very beautiful crowned with an enormous sunburst, but by day, when it is seen that the sunburst hides part of two splendid windows the beauty of the altar becomes a nothing to the beauty partly hidden by it.  The aisle windows - each as it were recessed by the pier columns supporting the vaulting are very beautiful - and are made up of numerous small scenes:  the intense colors of the glass - vivid autumnal tones - blue and red reminded me more of the early station masterpieces of the renaissance with their predominating glow of gold and hot flesh colours.  The Clerestory windows are very high, above the gallery, are not so minutely beautiful as those of the aisles.  These are I think more modern.  The windows of the Apse are high and long, and consist of 3 distinct 'stories":  the lower and higher two being very long and brilliantly leaded stained glass while the middle ones are short and seemingly unfinished.  At the side altar the windows are of lovely stained glass of blues and greens suggesting the background of Da Vinci"s "La Gioconda". 
 29  May 9 1916 J. - walking back to camp tonight - you know Frank, in confidence, I"d give anything to lose my young ways:  when I try to be older in the wards, the sisters want to know whats the matter, or if I"m sick, and when I dose they ruffle my hair and pull my ears:  it"s rotten.  I wish I looked older. 
 30  May 10 A few weeks ago France welcomed the Russians - on Monday she welcomed the Australians, N. Zealanders and S. Africans.  About 100 of this unit were represented.  At 1 p.m. we left camp, marched behind the N. Zealanders from the Anzac Base, to the Prado Opera house and halted:  next halt was the Coliseum fountain.  Waiting at the fountain small tricolours were presented to each man - and hundreds of women distributed bunches of flowers:  by the time we were ready to march off - we were just on the outskirts of the city proper - we were so decorated with flowers that it was almost impossible to find room for more - we did though later. 
 Marching into the city the crowd were terrific. 
 The steep abrupt rising fa&ccedil;ade of the buildings, absolutely uniform in color and varying very slightly in architectural details stand balcony and windows full of people clapping frantically and laughing at everything, halts were every few yards:  there seemed no traffic management and the people were pressing closely on to us leaving very little room.  We were shaking hands all along till we felt like [indecipherable] at a public feed.  Flowers in hundreds were scattered from the balconies and windows, and not a few women and girls broke through our ranks with trays of sweets and cakes. 
 Flags and flowers were everywhere.  Our officers were almost all the way presented with enormous bouquets more fitting for a comic opera star on a first night:  they got rid of a lot of them by pelting back at the crowds small sprays taken from the bunches. 