  
 284 Well there seems no advancement on the transfer:  it seems impossible to get to the field, and as if it"ll mean No. 2 G.H. for "Duration". 
 Tonight"s Times publishes big lists, and we"re damnably safe here.  Directly Jake gets back I"ll get him to try and fix for the 12th. 
 285 Because I wasn"t interested in social reform King told me that - "Of thy silent God thy soul is an unearthly shrine". 
 286  Oct. 29 Latest "Dinkums" Conscription lost by over 60000 votes midday counting and Melbourne (good for the Yarra) attempted to assassinate Hughes. 
 287 Yarn tonight with Harry covered the Philosophy of Expectation - the Histories of Herodotus and Walter Pater.  Hope to know Harry better "Apres la Guerre". 
 288 The problem of the day - how to get back from V. my Browning, Keats and Nina Murdoch "Songs of the Open Air":  think I"ll leave it to J. 
 289 A Tale from the Past. King now put in charge of a mental at Ghezireh.  All night the mental loaded A.S.C. wagons.  One of the chaps went up to see that all was going well, and found King half out the window, the mental loading and unloading his bed.  Joe waited a minute or so, then disappeared, shortly after he arrived back with another chap, to see the two mentals, still King was half out the window.  Then after a minute he came in, "It"s a b-lovely moon tonight, isn"t it?" 
 290 Wish I"d cut out and kept Lawson"s "In Flanders". 
 "An" he will say gor blime, Gor Blime, Gor Blime, An" he will say gor blime, Gor Blime, Gor Blime, An" think it means good day." etc. etc. 
 281 That"s a queer and sinister photograph I"ve got of J., almost a Picture of Dorian Grey.  Cover this one half and you have the early Dorian - and the real J. and in the other half you have the later Dorian - is there anything of J. in this half?  There was at the time perhaps - but not after the photo was taken. 
 292  Oct. 30, a.m. Finished during the night Vachell"s "the Pinch of Prosperity".  Two nights ago, first night of the Quarantine of Love, C. found it in B. - the edition in Dent"s Wayfarer"s Library, and in the flyleaf, J. Watson, 8117, A.A.V.C., A.17 - the book I"d asked Jack for last Oct., 12 months on the A.17 in the Indian Ocean.  "The Pinch of Prosperity", "Quinneys", "The Hill", "John Virney" [?] and others of his I"ve read.  "The Hill" was the first, read in 1911 while at the Grammar, recommended by Butch:  I wonder if he"s still alive? 
 In "The Pinch of Prosperity" is easily seen Vachell"s inclination towards social comedy, and his plays published and acted should be good.  "Quinneys" is amongst the best novels I"ve read - a fine book and finer character drawing. 
 293 From the British Austral Assocn., Oct. 19 last, 
 "A khaki"d mate from somewhere out at the back of Bourke informed me over our glasses at the canteen the other night that he and his mate would not be at all annoyed if the Belgiums change the name of their country to "Billjim".  "Look here", he said speaking earnestly and with no lack of modesty, "after the marvellous scrap they put up they deserve it.  Australia"s proud to know them".  It was dinkum praise from a dinkum fighter.  um - um.  It"s a new way of looking at the word "Billjim" anyhow. 
 294 I"m in a line (not 2nd G.H.) moving out of time.  "For Gaud"s sake mate, try and move in step for a change." 
 The Brit. Australasian"s as good as a Time paper - and as rare. 