  
 127 Five minutes ago, in a most illuminating argument on the ultimate good out of war, during a side issue, Barnes came out with the astounding announcement that Phidias was a clerk in a London shipping office working out his destiny - (his reincarnation of course he meant).  Another astounding pronouncement was that there is nothing evil - all is good or good in the making.  More tomorrow of J.B.-s. 
 127A  Aug. 12 In the tent I asked Jimmy if he knew what J.B.S. was in civilian life:  "Oh he"s a very clever man" says Jimmy, "high up he"s something in the Fire Engine affair," - "there aren"t many like him in Sydney" - which was very na&iuml;ve. 
 I first came into contact with him at the A.D.H. at Abbassia while we were "billeted" on them - not "patient-ed".  He, and, his crowd - they"re quite usual, were discussing Wilde"s De Profundis, and for some reason or other J, in his loud voice said, "I"d be willing to shake hands with Oscar Wilde tomorrow".  The very arrogance and impertinence of this - and having previously yarned with Harry, sent me into the tent to find out what the argument was.  J. - only having read De Profundis, knowing the scandal of Wilde, judging him by his greatest work, had said what I"d heard.  His manner and infernal presumption, made one argue with him.  I asked him if he didn"t think it presumptuous on his part to judge in a moral manner a man from one of his books.  No, he thought not, in fact his opinion was that by his works know ye a man - a most absurd statement, and especially in reference to Wilde.  He didn"t evidently see my point because he went on to say that he wasn"t narrow, he was he said "very unconventional and quite a bohemian - namely a most serious bohemian - "Pericles is a clerk in a shipping office working out his destiny".  Verily we saw some funny people in the rank when we came out without our guns. 
 128 Bartlett a few days ago remarked on being able by a man"s works to read a man"s mind.  Byron"s book of "Confessions" - a collection published by Murray was this Book.  He"s lent it to me - I"d asked for it otherwise he"d not have considered it fit.  He said, "You can read the man"s mind from it, and its not a great one.  Anyhow he never did anything that will last the century through".  God in Heaven, the world"s greatest Poet after Shakespeare not do anything:  Don Juan, the Dramas and Tragedies, Childe Harold, has lovely love lyrics - not do anything. 
 Thank heavens I didn"t shew him what I felt.  Several things I have learnt of late:  "Never shew your true feelings".  "Placing your opinion in a shop window is bad form" and "Mind your own bloody business" - or you"ll be so told to, and "Never sweat" - this last is disgusting - one of the things I object to in the Tommy. 
 129 Two days ago finished [indecipherable]:  I couldn"t sleep so I lighted up and read a yarn in The Queens Gift Book.  The yarn, illustrated by Rackham, was The Soul Fairies:  the first remark of Arabella"s cured me - she evidently felt as I do, sick of everything and everyone.  Thank you Miss Beatrice Harraden.  The Soul Fairies are charming people and I liked their company. 
 130 I haven"t read 'Dorian Grey" since April, and I badly needed some of it in an argument a while ago - the chapter on the ancestors of Dorian, and on the wonder of Renaissance crime, Chap. XI I think.  I must get hold if possible from Boulogne a copy. 
 131  A Req. from a loner - 
 Will you please send the Corp. round to mend the lockers and also one black kitten for the Patients.  "Good Christ" says Teddy, "What the bloody hells this - send them round one of Peter"s guinea pigs". 
 The Black Cat"s Kittens seem violently sought after. 