  
 The saluting base was firm.  The Marseillaise sent the people mad and we were almost suffocated. 
 The whole route - and it embraced all the principle streets of the city were packed and the flowers were all along the way. 
 At the Station right on top of the hill we halted in front of a large French hospital:  here a French bugle band was playing and the music of it was splendid. 
 Champagne was the next order, and we consumed royally of it.  France was the general toast and "It"s a terrible war". 
 The march back was jolly tiring and by the time we got back to Camp we were dead beat but happy.  The break was a purple patch in a field of dead sand. 
 31 At the fountain - where flags were being given out, Capt. Ross discovered he hadn"t one. 
 "For Christ"s sake let us get one", says he, "otherwise they"ll think I"m not patriotic", and he made a dive through the crowd. 
 Then outside left one of the four in front of me marching back had on his arm a jolly decent little French girl - who dragged a howling kiddy along with her.  Poor kid - Stan was having the time of his life but for the kid? 
 We halted.  The girl halted and the kiddie howled. 
 "Hallo Kid!" says a beautifully dressed and square  looking  woman on the pavement.  "You"ve got a very nice girly there eh?" "and is that yours too?" she asks.  Poor Stan!  He hasn"t heard even the beginning of that yet. 
 32 Peter was talking to me the other day about Russian writers:  Trotski, Tolstoi, Turgenev and other names came up.  He summed up Artzstashof [?] in his queer English:  it amounted to this, "Artzstashof he like a painter who paints a mountain and some trees so it look like when you are way away from it what the mountain look like when you see it:  he not like a painter who make the picture more beautiful than the mountain.  He like the French painters who you see in windows here in Marseille."  Realism undoubtedly doesn"t appeal to Peter - though Post realisms do. 
 33 On Monday morning so as to have money if we were dismissed in Marseille as we expected, I borrowed 5F. from Geoff.  Not being dismissed but marched back to camp I didn"t break it.  Bill was going out and was scouting out money so I offered to lend him a couple of Francs:  he had one and he gave me that - leaving 4:  2 he was to return.  Next morning he was going into town and I asked him to call in at Raemaekers exhibition and get me a catalogue.  He called in and paid for one to be sent on.  While he was in town and the night before the 5 note was too much for him and it vanished.  Geoff asked me to come into town just before lunch and I said I would:  got dressed and asked Bill for the 2F.  Poor Bill, he never got such a shock in all his life, he hadn"t a cent.  He went out and God knows where he got it but he came back with 5 more and he, Geoff and myself went into town.  Geoff handed me 1F. more.  Thank God somebody"s got some money. 