
302The 3rd Division, according to latest "Dinkum" leave Blighty Nov, 8 for?
303Long as unending threads, the long-drawn rain,Interminably, with its nails of grey,Athwart the dull grey day,Rakes the green window-pane -So infinitely, endlessly, the rain,The long, long rain.
The rain.
andHere comes the wind howling, that heralds dark weather,The wind blowing infinite ore the heather,The wind which has trumpet that heralds November.
both from "Poems of Emile Verhaeren" are on the last two weeks weather:  long thin rain, heavy hail and wind, the wind - "with distressful parting, and wailing with cold".
304If I"m going to save for Blighty, what I must cut out are teas at the little Cafe, and above all books:  yet of late the only ones I"ve bought have been Swinburne, Verhaeren and Hunlikely.  Jake"s cutting out cigarettes, at least Turf and De Reske - but then he can smoke red cross stuff, Capstan, etc., and these I can"t enjoy:  one luxury then I"ll allow myself.,Turf, they haven"t the insinuating flavour of De Reske, but I liked them a month ago before all others.  They"re the same price as 999 State Express, and better - 3.50-50.  This is the one and only luxury I"ll allow myself, and I"ll drop each second pay by not drawing it.  If that 15 doesn"t come through I"ll be euchred.  I"ll need at least 20 to see me through, 10 days Blighty.
305Working now, C and D self, Jake"s doing 1.  Tonight nothing doing so far (midnight).  It"s cold, a clear star brilliant night, and early in the evening a most peculiar cloud effect.  The moon was hidden by those clouds running along with the horizon, the sky bone clear, except for a fantastically long thin cloud, strikingly like the compleat arm of a skeleton even to the long thin fingers, and the double line of the forearm.  The whole [indecipherable] and hardly visible.
306  Nov. 2Comes back from Blighty tonight, Alf - he was finishing his stay at Pearsons.  With him a letter for J., from D. and he after reading it - and again in the canteen - almost happy again. If he gets his transfer to the O.T.S., and his account transferred to Commonwealth, J."s met his match.
307  Nov. 3The rain - it raineth every day - but not till 4.30 p.m. - so for the first time for about 8 days we hadn"t to rig up waterproofs.
308Arrives today registered letter - 1 note, so indulged in tin of "Turfs".  If it hadn"t been for the "Bing Boys" music, and Chadwick"s singing in the Recreation Tent, I"d have smoked the whole 50.
309  Nov. 6Pen - now in Blighty - pinched two nights ago by a Tommy Sgt.  Getting his Kit together I"d put it on his bunk, and then, then it went to Blighty.
310Tonight for the first time for two or three weeks we got some of our own chaps, N. Zealanders from [indecipherable].  Nearly the whole convoy N. Zealanders - and Australians - the inevitable Tommy though quite visible.
311The greatest, and newest of all "Dinkums".  It"s been known for some time that Col. Martin and most of his staff of U. bs are going to London - Col. Fry rumour has it till last night to take his place.  Now with his U.bs and 40 of the staff, he"s going to Surrey, and those left behind, at the rate of 10 as required are going into the field.  Other again "Rumours" would break up the most God forsaken unit in the A.I.F.
312Such miserable weather that we decided to break our promise to save and so to the little Cafe for tea, omelette and rolls and chocolate with Jake and Harry.