
142Tonight the first night ward work I"ve done since Monsart.  I"m in ward C. D. - both unequipped, and with a rush of patients in from the convoy of 7.30.
143Through the lines, along the Services tents at night, is a striking sight.  At intervals of every two lines a copper with a [indecipherable] on fire, and the long slender chimney curling out clouds of black smoke - hurricane lamps alongside the lines, buckets, the light from the service tents, and the added occasional hurried flicker of a carried lamp and a great shade, the night itself moonlit but greatly clouded.  The long perspective of the lines and the fire lights make it very effective.
144What a tent is the second one, Cathedral Ron - so christened by J.  Clerg. Bt., Bible banging H.T., the inimitable J"s, the rake Rd. and the gentle P.M.L.  Bt. and H.T. in bed at 7 p.m. - and kept awake till 11.  The gentle P. telling delicately filthy stories.  His superb detachment from it all.  Bt. drunken snores, J. reading aloud Julius Caezar and poor B. scandalised at the gentle P. but feeling decorously naughty and fearfully fast.
What will my new day abode be like!  The Reincarnation B., myself the second, & my esteemed friend L.O"N. - L. the most superb idiot - old enough to know better and spectacled.  In half an hour he explained in Arabic English Australian to a bewildered Frenchman that he was the 900 son of Lord Kitchener, finishing up with the one understandable word "Compris?"  The start certainly promises well:  Mfd. would make a good fourth but as yet my views are not quite sufficiently under control.
145The time is 1.39 a.m., Sunday 20, and 25 more are expected before 2.
"Praise God from whom all blessings flow."
Anyhow I"ve got that letter to Cass off my mind, but its not posted yet.
146  Aug. 22In today"s casualty lists, Roy"s name appears, R.O. Middleton, Australian Engineers.
147Tonight - what a comedy:  and Reeve takes it as seriously as the President of a society for the preservation of public morals.  What a badly stage managed scene was it when we came back from supper.  F-waiting:  writing at the table:  10 minutes silence:  enter a night sister, hurriedly "Why haven"t you been down to supper Sister:  C-she"d been away at supper (?) when we left - M. took our place.  "I"ve been waiting for Special", "She"s been back half an hour".  "Well she might have told me" - and exit the two.
Lord what fools these mortals be, poor H-y.  Mart asked her if she was going to be married, and the sequel - R-s tackled M.  What a roar and a roundabout confusion, something like a scene from "Measure for Measure".
148  Aug. 25At midnight last night, and till 4 this morning lights were out from Headquarters - luckily during that time there wasn"t a convoy.  At about 2 or a little later we could see the searchlights of Blighty and shortly after the reports of bombs etc.  It lasted quite 30-40 minutes, and then after a rest of about 25 started again.  Coy England still smiles sweetly and smoothes the crease of her pale lavender gloves.  "How horrid of them - really one of these days we"ll have, simply have to smack these nasty zeppelin faces - we"ll send an aeroplane over Berlin and let them drop letters, like nice little Wilson - we"ll shew them."  God what bloody hyperbole the English are.  Results - Nothing in comparison to some and sudden sighting of stray.
149  Aug. 26According to a letter received today from the Mater a book of Frank Coffey"s letters and papers has been published including my Ghezireh letter to Aunty.