
before which lasted from midnight 11 till last night at 8.30.  He in the afternoon at the brothels and self at Wimille - and the room as pretty as possible - a cake of Val"s starting it.
The transfer to the 43rd came through yesterday to join up when they arrive in France.  Before he goes he"s writing to Major Chaytor - 8 Field - to get me a transfer.  Tonight he got from the same man a letter advising him to stay where he is - and a while back a cable from his Mater.
324  Nov. 17Last night C Line "out of action" and patients distributed, so slept:  and all night from 10 till 7 this morning - with Jake"s blankets - and no duty till 8 this morning.  This morning it snowed - a fitting comment of nature - and a saving one:  at 4 we were to have met M.K. and J.M. - out behind Wimille - J. had 2 F. and I, 3.50 - that is out of the 20 we borrowed from King a day ago, we"ve now 5.50 - and J."s made an appointment for the pictures on Sunday.
It"s too cold to do anything, let alone write for a while.  I"ll read Swinburne and place nearby his influence on Nina Murdoch"s "Songs of the Open Air" - to assist in the task, a tin of Turf cigarettes and all my blankets.
325"Ah woe is me! that I should fondly partFrom my dear native land - Keats.
Nina writes,The wattle has unbound her golden hair,Making such golden mist upon the air,The little breezes breathless with delightPass her a tip-toe lest she take to flight.And suddenly the sleeping scent is stirredBy the low liquid whistle of a mating bird.
The third and 4th lines - and its
The wind and his trumpet that herald November,Endless and infinite crossing the downs,Then comes the windThat teareth himself and doth fiercely dismember,With heavy breaths turbulent smiting the towns,The savage wind comes, the fierce wind of November - Verhaeren.
326  Nov. 20Tonight our last set of dominoes:  tomorrow Jake leaves for No. 25 at Flanders with Scotch and Pluintis:  and the chances make it that Blighty may early follow.
Tonight"s mail with its 10 and word of another 10 is now as more edition de luxe than [indecipherable] man.
Maleish:  I"ll be a philosopher, read Epictetus and be thankful for his, not Epictetus"s, but Jake"s bed.
327Just on ten months ago since he arrived at Ghezireh, over ten or twelve weeks since we became pals.  At Ghezireh the first months he wore on his shoulder, 1 L.H.F.A. - at the time Dearling and myself were getting our transfers through to the main unit.
The modelling of his forearms, his hands and Pagan slenderness and grace, made me anxious to know him - but right up till Monssot he remained almost apart from the unit, yet friendly with all, to a certain extent.  On the Mediterranean he was with the rotten crowd, and of it as much as they:  at Monssot he was still stuck to by the last of the crowd, and he stuck to them till the end of June.  But even then, his worst period , he was with the shelter crowd - and a leader of the swimming, and the organiser of the carnival when he carried off the championships.  When we arrived here, he was a wreck, stood it out for a while, carried himself, developed and was admitted to hospital and on discharge came on to duty with me - and we"ve stuck together since, to my benefit greatly and to his.  Dear Jake, I owe you a clearer mind, a broader outlook and a deeper sympathy.
Christ God, who savest man,Save most of men, Count GismondWho saved me.