  
 153 So rarely do we get our own chaps that let in 90 cases out of one hundred call up North Walks etc.  Tonight the 5th of the convoy I asked "What are you men?" and got the answer "A b-r-st-rd from the Bush!"  No doubt that he was. 
 154  Aug. 31 F. after long fishing got out of us the words of the classic "apres la guerre".  Spud came in:  and of course wanted a repetition.  "Wherever did you get hold of that".  "Ah, at the 'Wass" 'Wimereax"".  What does F. know about the 'Wassah". 
 155 Pay yesterday, and for the first time since landing in France I haven"t had to pay out my division to deservers - not that I"m clear o one Jeff 1 and Cox & Co. will shortly be suing for their 3.  Maleish. 
 Yesterday night I got at Merridens The Book of Eve - drawings by Fish, who illustrated "Beyond the Beyond" of Leacock so typically, and 'Jude the Obscure" and "The [indecipherable], also two books of 20 each caricaturing of German uniforms.  In future I"ll dash most of spare cash to continuing my cartoon collection. 
 156 King, according to the result of an argument today prefers to get at the beauty of a book by widely dissecting it on the operating table of ideas successfully past.  Incidentally he holds that no-one but the artist (creator in all works, Printing, Art and Drama) can fully appreciate his creation.  Authentic criterion to no art and art is for the creator only.  King"s a Theosophist though, and agrees with Barnes. 
 In all these Theosophical ideas and books, such as one B. lent me Sayings of Pythagoras, it occurs to me they harp too much on certain points and ignore others.  Why a chap worships Pythagoras Axioms when he has the Book of Proverbs is beyond me. 
 157 Fourty stretcher cases in an hour"s time and ten patients dying:  what a life. 
 158  Sep. 2, 1916 This morning, turning in, King was reading some new books on Astrology and Horoscopes he"d lately received from England.  He told our fortune from year and date of birth, and then by palm reading.  According to the horoscope reading, many things he told of were true - some very untrue:  but taken all round, as I know myself quite a deal was rather surprising. 
 From my hand he told less - and more.  I have to die young:  say at between 50 and 55.  I have had one love affair that is passed, and shall have or am in the middle of another, which will end in marriage - and two children - boys.  Have I had a love affair?  That depends:  with M...?  That I have always - of late at least - regarded more as a platonic friendship, yet at times I have taken it seriously, and several things of late and earlier have made it look otherwise.  Yet I think - as far as I am concerned that has been or is being dismissed. 
 [Comment in margin]  If this means V.  - and it followed on shortly after. 
 Who is to be the final?  H ... ?  That as it stands, as I am concerned is happy, yet as regards H ...? well there is nonsense and nothing to make me think it will develop for some considerable time, 'apres la guerre" - when I shall certainly develop it as well as I can.  She is ideal and real.  I have an appreciation of things of beauty, yet for sheer art little real ability.  That  was  rough.  All my dreams of a paying hobby - drawings in a delicately suggestive  Beardslean manner for the Lone Hand Cover and such paper as 'Gypsy" - yet this and what he said following - 'You shall make success if you sufficiently work for it".  This seems notorious:  at the Tec. I could work - that Wilkie a hundred times impressed upon me.  Lindsay has said the same - and I have had to admit it.  Yet my failing is that interest fags if the subject 