  
 (b)  Three black smocked old men, perhaps very young chaps helping pushing a quaint cart filled with 5-8 coffins - bare, dull affairs - passing as here through fields of poppies and green. 
 (c)  Sketch of stretcher cases being removed from Ambulance - or newly arrived convoy of walking cases. 
 Hundreds of subjects are here for the doing - but they require a Branguin or Raemaeker. 
 102 God knows too many of our chaps have gone through us the last few days.  Their Peninsula name they"ve more than kept up but at what a cost.  Talking to them, their legs and arms sceptic and black, they"re cheerful and game and they tell of charge and capturing and holding lines of trenches despaired of months past by the tommies.  When I see them and they go out again in a day after dressed, I hate with all my heart those Australians fit who are not out here:  some day they"ll know their failure. 
 A chap we were dressing today  - his arm half shot away and his fore arm ripped and torn, one arm full of channel of draining tubes and black with mallow and badness, merely smokes hard:  to avoid the scene and perhaps is merely hysterical but what it all stands for is not. 
 And our damned chaplain don"t seem to do more than a casual saunter round him and sightsee.  God alone knows what they"re drawing their pay for - to provide gloves and uniforms for perhaps. 
 103 Harry"s dying:  as I write this even he may be even buried - and then I"ve lost the best friend I"d have had.  When I said goodbye in Nelson Street shortly after going into comb. before he went to Coonamble perhaps he knew we"d not see one another again.  So suited to each other, yet our tastes hardly the same, now we"ll never stay in Provence together.  I"ve had one letter from him, and one from Adelaide - and now Mother writes that the doctor says its merely a matter of 4 or six weeks - and he"ll write when he feels stronger.  "Oh God let him get stronger" - not to write but to live. 
 104 Reading "The Weekly Despatch - July 23".  I read in the World of Books column - "Anatole France is writing a new 'Island of the Penguins" about Europe at War:  He is expected, I am told to follow the example of Huysmans, the Parisian Belgian, and take minor orders in the Roman Catholic Church - The author of "Penguin Island", The Revolt of the Angels - a famous Artist - yet the obvious end of such a man. 
 105  July 25 From the Trenches. Tommy Chaplain wanted to find the Australians and asked their whereabouts of some of his own clan, "Well - you go roun" that corner, and you"ll see chaps wearing wristlet watches and calling each other B-s.  They"re them"! 
 Another A Chaplain was "easing the last hours of a dying dinkum.  He"d almost finished the usual stock "comfort" - "Then for Christ"s sake mate don"t make such a song about it", he got.  This was vouched for as absolutely true. 