
You"ll pray for me, my flower of flowersMy Dark Rosaleen!My Fond Rosaleen!You"ll think of me through daylights hoursMy virgin flower, my flower of flowers,My Dark Rosaleen!
6.I could scale the blue air,I could plough the high hills,O, I could kneel all night in prayer,To heal your many ills!And one beamy smile from youWould float like light betweenMy toils and me, my own, my true,My Dark Rosaleen!My Fond Rosaleen!Would give me life and soul anew,A second life, a soul anew,My Dark Rosaleen
7.O! the Erne shall run redWith redundance of blood,The earth shall rock beneath our tread,And flames wrap hill and wood,And gun-peal and slogan cry,Wake many a glen sereneEre you shall fade, ere you shall die,My Dark Rosaleen!My own Rosaleen!The judgement hour must first be nigh,Ere you can fade, ere you can die,My Dark Rosaleen!
74  June 18"Macbeth" in the camp.Maj. Of Anzac Details"Those he commands, move only in command, nothing in love.End of the WarCome what, come may,Time and the hour runs through the roughest day.Report of leaving Mosset [?]All is confirmed, my Lord which was reported(not "all" though)Held up by Picket in Lane"Our lack is nothing but our leave".
75  June 19The night before last from about 8.30 till 11.30 p.m. we kept awake yarning about making money:  now and then we were kids - selling manure by Jeff and snails self.  Bill colouring photographs, and Gallipoli Bill selling papers.  From this we went on to Burglar experiences - we"d all had them but Bill"s was counted out.
76Tomorrow 40 sisters leave here for the North, rumour has it that half of us leave on Wednesday.  Tonight my second night as night orderly since specialling Phillips at Ghezireh 1915. (?)  Last night I was up most of the night with a pneumonia case in A lines.
77Tonight I walked up the hill with Bill B.  He"d just received a letter from home dated Oct. 4 and shared it with self.  Affairs between he and H. are very strained, and have been for some considerable time.  H. has evidently been writing home about working 40 hours at a stretch without rest and other "war news" - giving Bill credit for totally ignoring his work.  Also Bill had about the date of the sending of this letter called for a Tenner:  "Now my boy take care of your money - its very very hard to get", etc. etc., and then the typical ruled warning against women.  I"d be willing to take a bet that 90% of letters to chaps here from home contained the stark view - warning - very veiled certainly against "women" and pleadings to take care of money.  "Whatever do you want money for" is the tenor of half the home letters.
Money talks - yes but the lack of it darn well stinks.
78Latest is that 50 of us have to stay here till God knows when.  Jonas is included in the 50.  Hope I"m not.