  
 Tonight got back from Orderly room application for 1st Field:  Col."s approved of transfer if we can get "two men of good character" to exchange with:  will forward the paper to O.C. 1st and see what that will bring forth.  Those chaps who have lately come into the unit from the 1st all say there are plenty of their men who are ready for the exchange.  Though it may be that when it came to the point of leaving their original unit they"d back out. 
 246 Lena Ashwell Concert Party at Y.M.C.A. tonight. What we had time to see was topping and the singing, best I"ve heard for months. 
 247 Today 12 months ago said good bye to Mother behind the Pres. Tent at Liverpool.  They - Mother, Betty and Father in the car motored up and wanted me to come home for the night, but only went in the car as far as the Pres. tent where said good bye a year today:  it doesn"t seem six months and it seems six years.  I wonder how many of us that came away in the old Port Lincoln we"ll see go back.  If we were to rake together B.2 mess here for dinner, as they"d talked about (Jake and self are going out to Wimille with V., so I"ll be missing) they"d get on to Harry, Sedj., Owen, Tom, Dick, Jack - out of 14.  B.1 mess they"d get none, B.5 ? 
 248 Tonight came out Hughes manifesto to the Aust. Troops re compulsion. 
 If they"re going to keep up our 5 divisions, well they"ll have to get it, yet I don"t think the chaps in the line will vote yes, but they"d be a sight fairer to themselves if they did vote 'yes".  Yes well for one thing means the more even distribution of casualties, and the keeping up to strength.  It will be a close go though. 
 249 Dinkum Oils, A.C. Parten [?] 
 1. The 'Dinkum oils" come pouring in, Morning, noon, and night, Startling news of every kind, All about the fight. There"s a sample of the kind Based on a batman"s whisper soft, Then Rumours on the go. 
 2. Russians capture twenty towns, Five Thousand Tommies Killed, No recruits are offering now, 'Cause their feet are chilled. No more harness to be cleaned, Leave to Ireland stopped, No more beer is sold to troops, Dags cut and chopped. 
 3. We are going home quite soon, The fleet is sunk again. Australians all for India, German troops in Spain. Darcy"s training men in camp, The Japs have got conscription, On Batteries with the M.M.P"s, Surpass all man"s description. 
 4. Greece is climbing off the fence, Smuts taken German west, Turks are in the Wassah, Austrians most distressed. Billy Hughes has died of gas From Politicians" speeches. Chedley"s clothes are soon to be The fashion on the beaches. 
 5. Bush fires from Canberra out The Murrumbidgee"s dry. The wowsers have another win, Two million beer wasps die. Shackleton has met his fate, The Bulgars fly on bikes, The Kaiser runs a "two-up" school, Dutchmen flood their dyke. 
 6. The King is now in New South Wales, And says he"s going to stay. Zepplins bomb a few more bales, Yanks are making hay, And this goes on for ever And seldom is it true. But I know for a cert, Tomorrow we"ll have stew. 