
85Last night thinking and anticipating the pleasure of an hour"s reading of Brooke"s "Poems" on the cliffs with Wilson, I had a sudden presentiment of sudden accident & falling over and being then buried in one of the horrible Military coffins.
Last night a Tommy Capt. was drowned in front No. 15 General - almost in front of the green capped cliffs.
86Coming back from Boulogne a few nights back, with Aleck we went into a strange E.F.C. for tea:  on the walls was a full set of Relitte"s drawings - adds. for De Reske Cigarettes:  after duly admiring them for us an atrocious Tommy - a London Cockney, confided the astonishing news that he (Relitte) was " - the 'ottest man in Lunnon, an" so refined two!"
87One of our chaps in the convoy tonight arrived with a smashed shoulder - high explosive shells - "I"d give the --- what did this a fiver if I found 'im,"  he said.
88A Tommy operated on yesterday evening had half an iron shoe from a Tommy boot and two nails an inch long taken from his thigh:  these odd scraps the Germans are using in shells.
89All "shop talk" out of hours is now forbidden.  Talk is taken from Wilde"s and Chesterton"s science book of epigrams and paradoxes.
90  July 14There is a vast difference between the Australian and the Tommy:  we see this here all day, and in a hundred different ways.  For instance:  the last three or four days our chaps have been withdrawn from this front and sent down to Etarps for a rest prior to being sent on to another front:  rumour has it about Verdun - a terrific compliment if it is a fact, since the French have so far been very careful to keep it entirely under their own men.  Trains of our chaps then have been passing here very regularly:  passing they make a hideously melodious din - coo-ees and whistling and ironical cheers.  Tommy trains pass with a farcical cheer.  This is not by any means to suggest that Tommy is downhearted, he isn"t, but he accepts things more as inevitable than the Australians, he suggests the healthy full blooded lazy animal - our chaps the full blooded Elizabethean, damning everything and ridiculing everything.  Another instance where our chaps contrast with the Tommies is amongst the wounded going home:  Tommy accept it, and seems mildly pleased and glad of the respite:  the "Dinkum" bubbles over and wants to make a splash - and to publically announce his home going.  Perhaps it"s a bumptious manner but it appeals in the quarters.
Australians motto, crest, or what you will should be - will be "Maleish".