  
 Count Rast Felon On a flying visit in the great absurdity, "Can we sea-plains" or "Berlin on the Spree". 
 Admiral von Tripit and Hopit and Company in the stirring Naval Drama, "Der Tag (or The Luggage Latch ) in 4 Acts. 
 Act 1:  Headquarters German Navy at Wilhelmaban Von Tripit and his "gallant" men at their daily work "Der Tag!" Act 2:  The same Act 3:  The same again please Act 4:  The North Sea June 1, 1916, "Der Tag". 
 Enter Adm. Jellico, Exit German Fleet! 
 To conclude with the stomach stirring Cantata, "Deutschland unter Allies Ja Deutschland in der Songs" by the entire company. "Got Mit Huns" 
 Acknowledgement to correspondent in Kobe. 
 196 There are a couple of Trooper Bluegum"s in the 6 Litt., "The Aust. Light Horse", Maadi, 1915 
 We"ve left out little geegees back in Maadi, We"ve started out on foot to fight the foe: For 'gravel crushing" makes us strong and hardy, And where we"re wanted, there the L.H. go. 
 Our Infantry have made Australia famous: Light Horsemen now are out to do their share And surely not a single soul can blame us, For bulling where there"s shrapnel in the air. 
 We couldn"t see our comrades far out numbered, While we in wicked Cairo lived in ease.  (?) We might do well have stayed back home and slumbered, So we"re off to bring the Kaiser to his knees. 
 It was pretty rotten parting with our horses, The horses we have learned to love so well: But Birdwood wants us badly with the forces, So we"re off to send the Sultan in to - Constantinople. 
 Pretty obvious jingle. 
 196 My Dug-Out There"s a hole cut in the hill That"s my Dug-out: And somehow I fear no ill, In my dug-out. When the cannons roar like thunder, Parapets are sent asunder, I just duck, and snuggle under, In my dug out. 
 For I"m safe both day and night In my dug-out: Though I feel a troglodyte In a dug-out. Still it pays you to take care When there"s murder in the air, For its close to Sari Bair In my dug-out. 
 Now and then the bullets zip In my dug-out: but I never get the pip In my dug-out: For it soon becomes a habit Just to burrow like a rabbit. If a sandbags near, I grab it For my dug-out. 
 Strange the Turks have never found My little dug-out. For they drop their shells all round That little dug-out: But some day they"ll score a hit, High explosive - I am in it, But in that I guess I"ll flit, From my dug-out. 
 There"s a photo on the wall, (Kershore ? me!) of my dug-out. She"s the sweetest girl of all, For my dug-out. And when the scrap is over, We"ll just settle down in clover, For she wants the Khaki live, From a dug-out. 
 Better:- Capt. Blackall, "Dug-out" in "Songs from the Trenches". 