
engaged upon gets wearisome.  Shall I make a success of Architecture:  yes, I think so - or I"ll have myself to blame, and no excuse.  I have the openings and the ability.  'You are worrying about something you are interested in, and it is dangerous!"   Jove yes.  Books.  They"re my curse and blessing.  Yet they are in a great way connected with Architecture.  The collection I have got together before 1916 shows that - and the foundation of the next collection - The Genius of [indecipherable], The Riccardi books, Raemaeker and the La Warne books on Paintings.  Yet here I must limit myself and keep to main issues and abandon bywaters.
159The three most intense and splendid experiences I"ve realised since coming away have been, 1. The scenery, the wonderful Mosques of Cairo, two in particular - both exquisite examples of lovely architecture.  (2) The seeing at the Musee de Longchamps, Marseille, a colossal reproduction of Michael Angelo"s David - and in a most unsuitable gallery.  Jove what a sight must the original be, and (3) the lovely Cathedral at Aix, especially its beautiful altar.
160A chap, an Australian amongst Tommies, died in the ward this morning after hanging on some time:  he had an explosive bullet in his lungs.  "Thank God he"s finished", says one of the Tommies, "now we"ll get some rest!" and the chap who said it nearly dies as soon as his leg bandages are removed.  The poor devil was a jolly good patient and he was as game as could be.
161  Sept. 4Harry, some time before I went into camp, one night we were talking books in my room at home, when the name Maeterlinck came up said, "I"ve been reading his Mary Magdalene, Frank, and it"s wonderful, simply exquisite.  I read it last month and remembered him."
162What a frightful situation Hardy makes of "Jude the Obscure".  In Holbrook Jackson"s "The Eighteen Nineties" he mentions the reception of the book and following this period I"ve long intended to read it.
The terrible part about the whole conception is that it is quite in accordance with human nature.  It is very powerful, and even treacherous.
163'What are you Mac" an Australian or a Soldier?
164We started 'skating on thin ice" about 2 a.m. this morning, and the best was this scene:  a country school class being examined:
'Now children what is the meaning of vermin,"No answer."Come, come, children - what is it that gets on the hens and worries them?""Please sir" (the usual squeak) the rooster."
165  Sep. 6A chap on Wright was asked what he"d passed coming down on the train.  He was a bad dysentery case.  "Some trains and ambulances, and houses, an"" - and we stopped him.  Another chap a few nights ago had a broken patella, and the doctor told him:  a bit later, I"d seen the chap didn"t know what the doctor had said.  I went down to him and asked him what was the matter.  "A broken propeller the doctor said - what"s that."
166By King"s Horoscope of Keith, he"s to marry unhappily twice, die of an incurable disease, have at least one lawsuit, be buried at sea, and after financial losses receive an unexpected purse - from public subscriptions.
The lawsuit will presumably follow his murder of one of his wives.