  
 I fled Him, down the nights and down the days, I fled Him, down the arches of the years .... 
 Finishing at "All things betray thee:  who betrayest Me". 
 174  Sep. 12 No convoy last night and none so far tonight. 
 Last night I read in Lord Redesdale"s Tales of Old Japan, "The Forty Seven Ronins" and till tonight have been converting it into a Russian Ballet in three episodes.  1.  The Palace of Kira Kozuke No Suke, (2) the house of Oishi Kuranosuke, and (3) back again at (1).  Finishing the Ballet with the beheading of Kira Kozuke No Suke on the darkened stage, at the end of 3. - omitting the offering of the head at the Tomb of Takumi No Kami and the death of the 47.  With a little easing and tying the history would make a brilliant Ballet and certainly the theme is sufficiently barbaric and heroic. 
 175 F-S. has gone off duty and a jolly decent little girl has taken her place - R.Ems.  Tonight we had an hour"s talk on the Tommy - not to Tommy"s advantage.  Her attitude after a stay in several hosps. in England matches mine. 
 Australia a Nation, is it a  very  great dream?  The Native of the Pacific, Lord of the Isles. 
 176 It"s the 13th now, and I wrote the above in my last year, 22 in France, 21 in Liverpool. 
 177 I wonder where Jimmy Houston, Fred Russell, Tillett, Ven Crichton and all the rest of the Ghizerah crowd are .. that joined up the 1st L.H. F.A. when I was out at Abbassiah that I missed through getting mumps - the Canal scrap and to have been out of this unit and to have lived with the L.H. chaps. 
 Jimmy went into Ghizerah one day and I nearly wept for joy at seeing him.  Jove he looked a lambkin - a dusty ragged and horse worn.  The very picture of happiness and bubbling over with life.  I wonder if he"s alive - and Fred, Crichton and the rest. 
 How they fooled us around at the Palace - 60 men to go to the Peninsula in a week - volunteers and all over many [indecipherable].  The idea cut out and only 40 to go 4 weeks later - getting to Cairo station and then being turned back.  I wonder if I"ll finish in No. 2 A.G.H. or get into one of the Field or Clearing Stations. 
 178 Yesterday morning speaking to a chap in the ward - an Ulsterman about my own age who was one of the Ulster volunteers, he reminded me of the Introduction to 'Lavengro".  Poor old Catholics - and far more of a Catholic (though in my [indecipherable] a 'Pope") than all the Catholics in the unit - with one exception. 
 179 Carlson and Coleman have been "Recommended in Despatches" [indecipherable] I read.  What for?  A Corp., a Tommy before we took over this base was awarded the D.C.M. for designing and arranging the gardens, (what do they think of them now?) and a baker at Boulogne got the same for baking bread. 
 180 Still lists in Base Orders come out of men who have been [indecipherable] and shot for "desertion" and "shewing cowardice in front of the enemy".  What is cowardice? and who are the officers in charge to judge.  He who is without sin amongst us, tell him cast the first stone, and judge not, lest ye be judged, how could any of these officers answer then? by hiding behind Great Britain"s superb work of her holy genius, The book of Army Regulations, and her papers have the bloody hypocrisy of writing up the archaicness of German law of the tutilary - and of admiringly rescuing such yellow rags in "My Life in the German Army" by one who knows and holding up their hands 