  
 150 In a review on "Carnival" one of the Critics wrote - to the effect - that 'Carnival" was one of those books he"d keep aside for his shelf of "possessions for keeps". 
 The suggestion, a shelf for 'exceptions" is good:  how would it work out.  To please the eye only - and in these cases books capable of such arrangement - Tuppy"s manner of reviewing a 'parcel of books" in Streets delightful "Autobiography of a Boy" would satisfy. 
 To start, McKenzie"s splendid "Sinister Street" - the two present volumes split up into the 4 separate parts, and bound under the title of each respective part, wine coloured or sage green buckram, suggestions for bindings. 
 Street"s "Autobiography of a Boy". Heine"s "Florentine Nights" and "Gods in Exile". "The Golden Ass" Pater"s "Imaginary Portraits" & "The Renaissance" Ruskin"s Seven Lamps of Architecture. Brooke"s Poems. Barrie"s "Half Hours" - the delightful "Pantaloon" Works of Max Beerbohm. "Belgium"s Agony", Verhaeren Keats and Browning.  Two 'Everyman Library" books. "The Picture of Dorian Gray" and "Intentions" (?) "Hyssop", M.T.H. Sadler. "Ordeal of Richard Feverel", Meredith. "The Green Carnation", Hichens. "The Passionate Crime", Temple Thurston. "Life"s Handicap", Kipling and his 'Ballads". "Gods and Wood Things", Allen. "The Buried Temple" - or perhaps in its place "The Blue Bird". "Greek Art and National Life", Smith. Finishing say with Temple Press editions of "The Book of Job" and "Proverbs". Wilde"s Comedies - Shaw and A.K.C., [indecipherable] and other essays of Pater - Anatole France.  Many others could be added, but the shelf is to be small and the collection exclusive.  Julius Caezar and Macbeth and Antony and Cleopatra and the Sonnetts with Thring"s 'Agamemnon" say would finish the list - which makes 33 books for one shelf (?). 
 151  Aug. 28 By last night"s mail came the catalogues of Philip Lee Warner - The Riccardi Press publisher.  What superb productions are these editions - The Canterbury Tales - Marius the Epicurean and all the others.  2.12.6 and 3.3.0, vellum.  Jove what a sensation it will be to possess them 'apres la guerre".  Shall I ever? and [indecipherable] and Winder"s Florentine Press books.  Swinburne"s 'Songs Before Sunrise" and "The Little Flowers of St. Francis".  To hold them and possess them.  To constantly flatter and soothe the sight:  apres la guerre. 
 The canvas back gold lettered so perfect, but the vellum covered edition, jove it pays every time. 
 Hodder & Stoughton"s two productions in this line - Kipling"s Collected Verse and Thompson"s Collected Verse are fine, type and get up all to be desired but the binding itself - the strength of it - seems below the Riccardi Press standard.  To turn from a shelf of Riccardi and Florentine Press books to a shelf of John Lanes well produced books - ye Gods what a comparison.  Then what is it to be:  the many decently produced or the very few perfectly produced. 
 More of a folio cabinet than a bookcase.  Designed in a Jacobean style, on high turned legs, and containing three shelves - plate glass leaded (?) or in small frames? leaded I think - and filled with these perfect books. 
 Oh Arnold Bennet of Literary Taste pause before this wondrous altar and tremble - and pass on. 
 'Apres la Guerre". 
 152 A Tommy crowd took over Monsart.  The new Tommy M.O. entered the ward:  "It is a treat, Major, to have our own men again and not a beastly Australian".  "Yes Sister?"  He went on working.  In conversation, "What school were you through Major, Guys?"  "No sister".  Later, "Edinburgh?"  "No Sister!" and as he was leaving, "I"m from an Australian varsity Sister - Sydney!" 