  
 stretcher. 
 All day receiving, dressing and loading cars for A.D.S. 
 The lads took the village Hermies in such a style as only they could - and they received their wounds as they always do. 
 Turned in about midnight last night and up early this morning. 
 Rations, 1 load to 14 men and bacon in proportion.  Rumours of all kinds around of big victories, of great prisoners and elation. 
 Three died on stretchers here yesterday, and to be buried today. 
 Today if I get the chance, I"ll read some of "Romeo and Juliet". 
 92 In the Bapaume Cemetary, at the end of the main entry walk, behind the crucifix the Boche has a great semicircle of officers graves, graves of Majors, Capts. and Lieutenants, the ground over them is heavily hidden in trailed ivy, held in by a low wooden ledge, and each individual grave has its own separate headstone.  These are perfection of their kind:  about 3.4 high and 20" wide, thick dull grey stone, reasonably simple and the proportions in lettering and plan design finely wrought. 
 Each is different and glaringly so, different as the long terraces of houses and public buildings of Marseille. 
 93 Yesterday morning left La [indecipherable] for an outpost in the fields.  Party, Capt. Lee, Billy, two others of squad, nice men, Finlay, Finnes, and two unknowns.  Cold afternoon - snow and blizzard. 
 94 Yesterday confirmed the word that one of our squads leaving for the Batt. had been knocked.  The squad - Blaidem, Harry through the back the shell piece penetrating into the abdomen.  Max and Jack Batchker the other two, the 4, one I don"t know. 
 95 This afternoon over to the chateau near Velu to grout from the 3rd Batt. canteen.  Managed cigarettes and [indecipherable] but nothing else about. 
 96 Cliff brings word of a big mail for us with tomorrow"s rations. 
 97 Some of the lighter side of our advance - of the Rabelaisian side. 
 In Bapaume - hanging from the window of one of the partially standing villas - a pair of women"s ---:  underneath "Australia will be there!" 
 Hanging from the half remaining iron bracket of an old estaminet"s sign, a chamber - and the estaminet renamed, "Chamber of Horrors", and on an old post in the middle of a wreck, an old civilian hat - "The one we"re all after". 
 And prisoners - the art of ratting them.  New tales as told of Frank:  Frank according now to tradition, on Monday "bought 20 Boches for 5 francs" and if his bag is the criteria, then he invested well.  Frank"s speciality is watches. 
 We were yarning last night, Bill and self.  Bill had just brought down a walker, and comparing notes of work during the after attack of Hermies. 
 I said something about one of our chaps wearing a Boche cap - and so losing his turn for dressing.  "I remember that chap!" says Bill - "Frank sighted his arm lying over the blanket and secretly sighted a wallet.  Frank dived at it - and "Chuck it, lad - you"re the third that"s been after that." 
 98 Mail tonight - 3 letters and one from Times Book Club.  One from Mater, and Geoff and one Betty.  Will keep Mater"s only. 
 Times B.C. sends list of Beerbohm"s work and will send for "Yet Again", 5/-, Happy Hypocrite out of print. 
 Troops till late - after rum issue round a brazier yarning.  Capt. Lee leader and we spent a good night. 
 99   April 13 13 in the post, the date the 13, and the day Friday, and my 13th month in France - and my 3rd stunt. 
 100 No. 100 entry last year - a letter to Times B. Club, this time one ordering Beerbohm"s "Yet Again". 