  
 132 Tonight"s mail "Responsibilities" by Yeats and a letter from Phyllis. 
 133   May 1 Yesterday"s morning parade - Prizes 3 for each section for the "nicestly dressed".  Paddy a winner and all his boys borrowed:  result - he"d a day off.  Consequently leave to Amiens - and he"s not back yet. 
 Today parade at 2 full pack and gun up - all stuff left in Marquee [indecipherable] ....  Michael Hunt, M.C., again doubly proved himself an active member of a family barren of marriage for the last century. 
 134 Reading lately the short tales in Tagore"s "Hungry Stones".  Of short stories though almost all take their place with any of the great short stories.  "Victory" and "Life and Death" are beautiful and "Life & Death" all terrible. 
 135 Sunday morning Toby, Clarrie, Nick, Murph and self started out to walk to 'where Thiepval was, and dead men are":  Nick and self discoursed on little green patch and lay savouring this hour - while the others went horror hunting. 
 136   May 2 A big stunt"s in the air:  the oil is, and has been since Sunday, that 1000000 men are 'going over" - 20000000 in support and on a 90 mile front. 
 Fatigue - digging in the morning as usual, and gas helmet drill this afternoon.  Leave to Amiens tomorrow 'cut out". 
 132  May 13 New journal started, and this yet to be finished. 
 138 To reconstruct from the day we left here - awakened early, and all bearers, motored up to the M.D.S. at Veulx. 
 At 8 a.m. all bearers left here (Pozieres) motored to Veulx, and there spent the whole day - a hot full summer day - waiting on one of the open spaces, overlooking ruined Veulx, waiting as reserves. 
 At 5 p.m. squads were made out, Billy, Hagan, Max and self.  By 9 we were in the second sunken road in the fighting area, alongside an aid post waiting again.  In a cloud of gas that the Boche sent over, Hagan and Medcalfe were gassed - so the squad broken.  Ten more minutes waiting, then the whole two sections started forward again - through barrage of H.E. and shrapnel - machine gunfire and tear and cloud gas.  It was a nightmare trip only describable by Poe.  We arrived at the R.A.P. established in a railway embankment about 200 yds. long - and started carrying immediately. 
 Our squad started again after Hagan"s packing up with Leask, Marley, Billy and self.  After second carry, Leask was killed, and Marley badly wounded.  The squad remade a third time - Roach and Mac, and continued on all the next day with relief at 9 p.m.  Back then to the sunken road, our first hot drink, then on again through Norieul to another sunken road and then in rough funk holes, slept till morning of the third 