
up to Factory Corner as guide and across to run and Post that had moved up to Yarra Bank at 4 in the morning. Fritz was shelling heavily all along the old taken lines, marching his dead, and using his heaviest metal.  Back to Edwards, and the rush commenced.  All night till 2 a.m., both slings in use, and a line waiting.  Capt. Robinson and his off-sider in to give us a hand at 11 - Clarrie up with Jack to Factory Corner with splints and dressings, and dugout like a slaughter house - ankle deep in bloody gauze, muddied bandages, and cut off first field and shell dressings.  At Turks dump one shell got a whole party, killed 9, two died here, and more that went through have one chance in a hundred.  At 5 a.m. cases slackened off - and word came through that behind Bapaume Fritz was withdrawing.  I turned in at 10, returned at 8 by Clarrie and Mon, till then all the lads we dressed had been wounded before 5 the day before.
All the elation of the success goes with the hell that it costs.
Midnight, 26 - the artillery has slackened but no stretchers yet through.
2 a.m., Feb. 27.  Eight through - nothing fresh.  Fritz is sending over tear shells galore, and heavy iron only.  Our 18 pounder batteries since this morning this side of Flers going strong.  Nothing yet of the result of the 11th"s work tonight.
Feb. 28.  15 pounders established since late yesterday over Factory Corner way, last night slow and five cases through - considering advance.
Samples of water from the second sullage through tonight from Bazentin - in bottle of German make and label, and a Fritz card for sample list and position of wells.
More reinforcements arrived for us tonight - three of them to night duty squad.
Sent down to Bazentin today, letter of 10 pages - to Mother - green envelope.
26Library at present - Keats, and Ginger Mick - he"s missing though - somewhere in the big dugout.
27  28 Feb."Everything"s tres bon but the flowers" says one chap when we unbandaged his smashed leg.
28On the Yarra Bank carry.  Robinson was knocked - neck and shoulder - carrying with Bib.  Into a shell hole Bib drags Robbie - and sight Major Kay a far distance away.  Bib stands up, waves his arms about, and yells "Bill, Bill, over here".  Says the Major later in Bazentin telling the tale - "He was singing out Bill, Bill, - but till I saw Bib didn"t think it was me - it was though".  Another of Bib"s typical adventures with the same chap, goes well in a dugout but not in a journal.
29  March 1, 1 a.m.Heavy shelling on our left:  early in evening the Right had Fritz thinking - and worrying.  The whole sky in that section brilliant with dazzling white flares, and bright red and occasional emerald ones.  Shelling heavy early - now quiet.
Read for third time lately, last act of "Otho the Great".
Last week sent 1 note to Times Book Club, so as to have a credit for getting, sending matter over.  Wrote with money for J. M. Barrie"s "The Little Minister", Temple Thurston"s "City of Beautiful Nonsense" and Masefield"s "The Everlasting Mercy", 1/-, 1/- and 3/6, 6/- in all.  Next order to initiate, Flashback"s "de Maupin" [?].
31When we came in on Jan. 25 last, in No. 2 Relay dugout a coincidence:  of the few books amongst us two were Everymans edition of the Balzac "Eugene Grandet" and "The Wild Ass"s Skin" belonging to Basil Burdett and self.  Had a good old yarn - Book turning - and Book illustrations, Dulac, Rackham - then on to Aristophanes, Apuleius, Rabelais, to Barrie, Wilde, finishing with Newman"s Apologies and St. Augustine"s Confessions.
32Sunday night, one chap through the D.S. - knocked in the leg, arm and head, started to laugh, for 5 minutes he was quiet and then off again.  I asked him what the joke was, and got this -
"I can"t help laughing at the way the ...s ran!"