  
 42  March 6 A quiet wonderful day:  Batteries moved from above us - so now nights of comparative quietness.  Saw in trench Inf. boy wearing colors of 18 Batt. - so chatted him about George, heard he was near, but exact whereabouts unknown:  asked chap to tell him when he saw him, that I was enquiring after him.  Later in the afternoon a runner from his Company called me up, and I went over with him to where he was quartered.  Had tea with him, and a fair yarn.  He"s changed as much as the English alphabet in the last century and looks topping.  Saw snaps taken in Egypt of Russ, jolly fine of him and a good photo.  Must try and get a copy.  Apres, also one of Nic - changed out of all knowing. 
 Strange that he didn"t know of Olga"s engagement - I put my both feet in it there pretty evidently. 
 43  March 7 Out to Luisenhof farm and the enormous crater - quite a Bairnfatherson sight - villas round its sides and a centrally placed cookhouse.  The day dull and quiet. 
 44 In the Dad"s last letter an enclosure on establishment of chair of Architecture at the Varsity.  Apres it"ll be my luck to be too late to take it fully but with it in Sydney it"ll mean finer work and more competition.  Must get hold of something - some text book or other of one of the allied arts and fag it up - "Art" by Bell or "Works of Man" or "Studies in Architecture" also Lethaby"s  Architecture in Florence University Library.  Will write to chap, [indecipherable] Hoofe mentioned in Dad"s letter of same date in cutting. 
 45 Since writing the above, one letter of 4 pages home and one to Blighty, to the Hoofe chap with 10 F. for Craig"s "Art of the Theatre" and Lethaby"s "Architecture". 
 46 Ah, love could thou and I with fate conspire, To grasp this sorry scheme of things entire, Would not we shatter it to bits, and then Remould it nearer to the heart"s desire, But  ... The moving finger writes and having writ Moves on ... The sword proves mightier than the pen, And honors King supreme. The stars of heaven gorgeously are lit, The land is barren strewn with rotting dead, Still creation with a ghastly bloody lake For love of man and honor"s sake Christ God For all the sins wherewith the faces of man are blackened, Man"s forgiveness given .... and taken. 
 The argument was barren tonight - hence this effort. 
 47  March 8 The main idea being a central living room court lit by two gable end lights.  Roof beams as decoration - stained Flemish bark. 
 [Design of house estimated to cost 1000+.] 
 