  
 88   April 7 Geoff"s Birthday, and Good Friday. 
 Left Aveluy about 1.30 p.m., marched full kit up to Byzantin le Petit, through Albert. 
 Weather as changeable as a woman"s moods:  lovely sunshine, cloud then to black and rain:  sun again, and darkness again.  Now it"s raining dully and stubbornly.  Here there doesn"t seem to be a gun in any of the old places - already our old A.D.S. is being designed for a C.R.S., A.D.S. somewhere beyond Bapaume.  The 'oil" is that we"re - the 1st Bearers, are not going on this stunt:  Tomorrow will show. 
 New Col., Lt. Col. Brennen of 7th F. Amb.:  he"s now on leave in Blighty. 
 89 Mail last night - "The Girl and the Farm", so far Romance of Zion Chapel hasn"t turned up yet.  Finished "Love Among the Artists" and enjoyed it.  It"s a book to be read in big doses and to think on. 
 Sent parcel of P.C."s to Bett. 
 90   April Yesterday after breakfast, kits up, and from Byzantin le Petit, past High Wood, then on to the old light rail, past Turks Dump, along the North Road, past Factory Corner, Luisenhof Farm and the old crater, through Thilloy and into Bapaume. 
 Dog tired and weary, in the afternoon, Swiss tents to go up and "tenting" till 6 p.m.  Then for a walk to the higher part of the city evidently over a strongly defended portion before the war a beauty spot, now devastated remains. 
 Bapaume ? a city of not one whole house, or not one place of beauty:  everything, houses, church, Town Hall, residential districts, etc., all are rambling ruins. 
 Even the trees on the boulevard, in places have been deliberately sawn down, not to be thrown across roads or for any military use but by mere futile rage and hate and love of "Kaiser".  Every tree, that is pine tree has had the top sawn or chopped off. 
 Fritz!  You"re ----:  you"re a Boche. 
 91 Velu   Tuesday after Easter Midmorning:  now the line is comparatively quiet and little is in the air. 
 Sunday back in Bapaume, at the M.D.S. parade at 7 a.m., fatigue parade at 8.30.  The morning paving a Swiss cottage tent - one of the three we"d put up the day before - with bricks, etc., and the afternoon filling and cleaning lamps and flame stoves. 
 For a walk then after tea to the remains of the Church - a solid stone building once - with more architectural pretension than architecture - now a roofless and half high wall wreck.  Columns from the aisle all seem to have fallen towards the centre, and underneath thousands of old skulls strewn in one of the old vault chambers.  Then to the Civil Cemetary - to see the Boche monument:  a solid lental pin finishing in 4 steps and surrounded by a roughly hewn ball.  On one side - that facing the annexe - the corner bounded by double line of Boche graves - is a strongly carved Iron Cross and a dedication in gilt sunk letters.  By a name on the back the illustrious Architect is one Erkmann [?]. 
 [Rough sketch.] 
 Rough sketch - Plan of position of Boche graves and monument.  Main walk leads to Crucifix.  Circle shaded monument of 1871 to the French Dead.  Outer line - rim of trained trees, and two single parallels on either side of walk, double rim of graves.  The French graves that interfered with their scheme?  Across the smooth inscription face of the monument in hand writing.  Fritz, you bloody ----. 
 Arrived back at the M.D.S. after walk about 7.30, and we moved off with full gear up at 8.15 - and around at Velu station - the rough wreck at midnight. 
 Bombardment such as I"ve not heard before about 4 a.m. yesterday. 
 At 6, back in Velu village and on squad work. 
 Fritz prisoners - about 200 saved the carrying situation - 4 of them to a 