  
 Town Mayor wasn"t to be found.  Poor devil it"d have meant something pretty hard for her - which for us, if she"d been successful in getting the stores away - with an inquiry and most likely nothing more. 
 Poor devils, they fleece us when we buy from them, but it seems their gains aren"t too heavy for them to bear. 
 80   March 28 A quiet day - the water still but cross currents running under. However if storms are brewing they"ll break tomorrow. 
 Tonight down to the village to buy eggs of Madam for tea:  in one street met two of the 1st Div. boys, two Apollos seeking their Daphnes. 
 For tea tonight had over one of the 3rd Field chaps from a nearby village, a decent chap, dark and quiet. 
 81   April 1 March 30 - relieved by bearers of 7th Field at Senlis - and trucked across country, through Melincourt and Lavieville to Buire, at Lavieville had coffee, at little farmhouse, and heard all good of 'Australians" and much bad of Tommies.  Slept in Regular hut. 
 82 Wakened this morning - between 4 and 5 - someone outside with the oil that we were moving off some time during the morning, patients and all.  We turned over - April 1 ... and "came a gutzer!" 
 All day loading lorries and wagons, taking down tents, etc., and dismantling station.  Tonight walked with Toby and Nick to Mericourt and there tea, eggs and coffee. 
 Tonight mail, 4 papers, one Bulletin and three old mail from Joyce. 
 Last night another celebration - champagne and cake - Harold, Toby and self. 
 83 Today starts my second year of France. 
 84 The hand of fate has heavily descended upon Jimmy Smith:  yesterday in Mess I sighted him, and if it hadn"t been for his manner I"d have passed him, merely struck by an appearing close resemblance.  One of Harry"s letters said he"d gone back to Australia.  The tale - Blighty to be boarded, has refused to go before them, and he"s getting into a draft for France.  Voila:  (Entry 330) 
 Paddy"s back in the same draft - and Jimmy"s lead them all to believe that he"s an 8th Field man ... 
 85   April 2 Striking tents etc.:  told off with Harold and Bill to parade orderley room 10 a.m. with packs etc.  Just before met King:  he"s up to Aveluy in the same car, and tonight a good yarn with him. 
 Now just outside Aveluy, in the chateau of Baron Rothschild:  once evidently a most perfectly serene chateau, now a wreck.  Billetted in stables - elaborate buildings.  Loft offers good suggestion for living room and studio. 
 [Drawing of room.] 
 Under hipped roof beams showing, studio under one mansard - Elizabethan stairs under other.  Work out next time in line. 
 86   April 4 Walked to Albert - to Bonzer theatre with Clarrie, King, Stan, Johno last night:  tonight in Albert again with Nick, and a good yarn - one of those that do you good. 
 Paper has it that America an ally:  opinions expressed by several of the lads - "--- in the ---- we don"t want 'em". 
 87 Consider seriously mansard roofs and juggle with them against accepted modes of use. 