  
 101 Books for expecting - from Merridens Wilde"s "Ballad of Reading Gaol" and Dixon Scott"s "Man of Letters".  From Phyllis, W.B. Yeats "Responsibilities and other Poems" and from Hoofe Tagore"s "Hungry Stones and other Tales" and from Erskine Macdonalds, the last three numbers of The Poetry Review. 
 From The Times Book Club le Gallienne"s Romance of Zion Chapel - but judging by its time in coming - napoo. 
 102 Today placed our position in the valley.  The Post is equi-distant from the four villages - Beaumetz les Cambrai - Velu - Doignies and Hermies. 
 103   1 a.m., April 14 At 8 p.m. yesterday Capt. North - M.O., 3rd Batt. turned up for advice about bearers for tonight - or this night"s stunt - an advance on the Div. front of 1000 yds.  Billie runner to resting post to take them up to new R.L.R., once squad here up to first Relay, self runner back to Cliff"s post and wagon rendavous - for comforts and another Arab wagon.  Back to post in evening and still waiting for cases.  Capt. Lee turned in midnight and as yet nothing"s doing.  The night earlier, quiet and cold:  in this post the fire warm and in anticipation of blankets most desirable.  Just after tea yesterday a Fritz observation baloon was brought down in flames - leaving a great cloud smoke query above the clear cut horizon. 
 At sunset the sky and plain effect very lovely:  sky of a most weird blue green, and the hill a mellow green blue. 
 104 Late morning - The sum total of casualties, ten stretcher cases, one head, shoulder torn and big, and the other abdominal:  both M. gun wounds.  The whole endeavour, as far as we"ve the oil as yet seems an entire success.  Very heavy bombardments all early now till daybreak on our left:  when the second take over from the 4th. 
 105 In the iron dugout behind - this morning the discussion turned on 'Gutzers" we"ve come - ours  yesterday - we spent almost the entire day building surface dugouts - building in them fireplaces and even furnishing the main one with an ingle fireplace:  and in the evening turning in time the two squads had to turn out and go up to the R.A.P.  Bill and self runners and so here.  This morning Capt. Lee has just gone up with a Major of the 2nd F. and our job in this place hangs in the balance. 
 106 Billie just asked Capt. Lee if he could get back to the A.D.S. to change his high boots for ankles.  "Oh, there"s a nice little Boche up there, he"s been dead 4 or 5 days but he"s got a jolly nice pair on!"  "Oh, but they"re [indecipherable] to the calf [indecipherable] on!"  "No they"re good ankle ones." 
 107 In the grounds of a once beautiful chateau near Velu, a great Boche cemetary.  Some fine crosses amongst the number, and some of the graves lately opened by his own shells.  Tho" when he possessed it, used the chateau as a C.C.S. 
 108   April 15 This morning early heavy bombardments along this sector by the Boche.  At 6 arrived one stretcher case - one of a ration fatigue of the 3rd Batt. - a 22 or 23rd Rein. - not yet allotted to any particular Coy.  At about 7 word came that the main party had wandered into the Boche line, and there were a lot of wounded about.  One squad left here and went up with stretchers to R.A.P.  No word or rumour for about 2 hours - then they started to come through.  About 18 stretchers came through - straight from the line and we acted as R.A.P.  Amongst walkers, Ken Saxby, a rifle bullet through his R. Breast and out under his arm ... had walked from the line without help and was exhausted when he arrived. 
 Fritz tried to advance, the 3rd Brigade, rumour has it has been badly cut up, and the 2 Batt. very low in strength. 
 The Boche had orders to advance 3 miles, he captured some of our guns where he got through, gleefully gloated over the trophies and then we recaptured them with 600 prisoners.  In front already they"ve counted 2200 Boche dead.  Now if he had advanced 