
.. the last fading glory of the Sun.  Lister Lister has painted glory into his "Golden Splendour of the Bush" but the golden splendour of the Beach - Bondi of rushing wash and golden sand, no one has done.  In the Bondi of memory.  Nature has more adorable art and its wonderful and awful.
Bondi and its sunworshippers 1300 miles apart.
Bondi, the full brave sound of the name - to be there again, full length on the sand, a lovely December day every sense resting.
Snow on the ground outside, a bluish sky:  on the hills dull constant flashes of light and the low far heard sound of the Guns.
22Dinkums yesterday finished in Arras, todays, Becourt, Hammel.
23Albert, Jan. 23
The coldest and a most miserable day.  The water in our bottle in less than an hour frozen.  This afternoon roaming round the city - and a good look at the Cathedral:  a tawdry - an expensive building in a bastard Byzantine manner, hopelessly wrecked and ruined.  The great gilt Virgin and child on the tower, leans over the street teters, at an angle of less than 60 with the perpendicular.
Held above, and her arms raised, the figure blesses all passing below.
A Bairnsfather drawing - the cathedral, and ten Tommies.
"What did that""lice!"
24The bilett in the Cathedral School house just across the square.
There is a picture in it.
A Brazier - 17 around it - a high well proportioned room - tapestry walls and great north doorways.
Edwards PostThe North Rd.
2511.25 p.m. - artillery and machinery gun fire:  Feb. 26.  Red flares the colour of winkles in [indecipherable] - a big stunt in progress.
No two reports tally - all though along similar lines - a great advance, and new stations being established.
The stunt started early the evening of the 24 - the day Clarrie and self went down to Byzantine [Bazentin ?] for a change and a bath - which didn"t meet us.  Back to Edwards at about 4.30 - at 5.20 as we were finishing tea in the dressing room, Capt. Hunt elected me runner - to No. 1 Relay and Factory Corner - to change over posts immediately at the [indecipherable] such, and to get things ready - the 9th were going to hop over and the stint for the maze due.
At Edwards Post only Clarrie, Mon, self in Dressing Room, with the Babble and Batmen on duty squad - many other bearers at Turks Trench, Yarra Bank and near railway.  Every minute from right we were expecting the Artillery to open fire - we knew the strength of the maze, the importance, and the value Fritz attached to it - and we knew that in some places he"d evacuated his strong point and front line, and heavily bombarded them.  We padded improvised splints, unpacked shell dressings and gauze and wool, got out supplies of Morphine and bandages.
A whole night of silence - two stretchers in early, but out of the stunt - at about 10 p.m., General Bennett"s batman in for Aspirin brought rumours that the maze and a whole division line had been taken without a shot fired - and the scouts couldn"t find Fritz.  At 3 a.m. we got out blankets, sat up with them around us, and Capt. Hunt and Billie turned up with word of nothing doing, to get a sleep which we could.  Two cases in at 6 - two signallers of the 9th, both badly knocked - one had a Mills in the pocket and laying run wires had fallen into a shell hole.
Clarrie and Mon carried on, I turned in down in the dugout:  up at 11.30 runner again