  
 13 Notice the entry - well 13 is my lucky number. 
 14 Lately seem to have gone all my desires for an exhaustive and compleat collection of war cartoons.  Now instead of a collection of quantity, it shall be a collection of quality.  Raemaeker, Dyson, Lindsay, Lewis [?], Sullivan and a few others of exceptional beauty of design or originality. 
 15  Jan. 18 The Blue Mosque - below the citadel, the Sphinx and the Pyramids, midnight and a sky of slow embroidered densely deep blue, the Cathedral of Aix in Provence, and now three days ago, on Sunday the Cathedral of Amiens. 
 All the Gods ever with us and we heard high mass celebrated before a wondrous altar by marvellously robed Priests:  a choir of white robed red cap"d boys and censor swingers in delicate laces:  and the service between two high long walls of deep sandbags. 
 All the richer and more exquisite carvings and shrines, the choir stalls were hidden beneath flat walls of sandbags:  but the brilliant stained windows, of the lustered apses were clear and unprotected. 
 The building is the realised conception of a madman.  It is a creation ranking with all the best and greatest of the world"s Art.  In a way it somehow recalled Rodin"s "The Thinker" and Michael Angelo"s "David" and Phidias" "Three Faces of the Parthenon". 
 16 In Amiens a bookshop - Vachell"s latest, "The Achievement of Time", 5th serve of de Maupassant and Balzac"s "The Wild Ass"s Skin". 
 At a photograph shop spent 40 francs on pictures of the Cathedral. 
 17 Last night a heavy fall of snow - today snow - balling - and no respect of red cross.  Had Hunt alongside resulted in two - jolly fine big bricks.  Good sport in the snow, but hares badly outnumbered by about 200:  still they put up long and good fights, but .... 
 18 There are two Jews amongst the new reinducements says Bib - "A Serj. - that"s crook - we"ve got the mob that killed Christ with us - what will we do." 
 B"s in the cookhouse now. 
 One day in the incinerator comes up the W.O. to him and says - 
 "Where"ve you been Bib?" "Ere all the morning!  I"ve ..." "I didn"t mean that, what have you been doing, I haven"t seen you about for months." "Oh, up the line and ..." "Then do you like the job." "It"s a '..." of a job." And so Bib"s on a nice one - the cookhouse. 
 Once before B. came into the tent disconsolate and fed up.  "When"s sick parade, I"m goin" sick." "What"s up Bib?" "Nothin" that ... of an incinerator won"t burn, that"s all." 
 19 After Jake, it"s a penance to see these native beggars under the showers:  half of them have the lesses of ugly women:  no muscle lines or symmetry.  Of the whole twenty there"s not one worth a second study. 
 20 Letters from home.  Geoff wrote for particulars of the tank:  Billy"s writing a novel, otherwise the family are well.  Other letters from [indecipherable] Sharpe, the Whittels and Joyce. 
 21  Jan. 20 Sun worshippers - in a land where the sun is a God that is dead.  Where nature has been shrouded and laid in a hideous grave by the spirit of Desolation, a land where once most lovely woods are ripped jagged, trunks and dead branches, gaping holes of sinister water and mud, where tall trees grew from deep grassed soil. 
 Only the skys are lovely, still blue and swirling clouds, white with rifts of pale gold 