  
 56 and the long expected, given up hope of - books from Merridens, Vol. V. of Shakespere and Burns in Nelson"s new centenary lit.  Gallipoli by Masefield - have among the artists of Shaw, and Quinneys of Vachell. 
 Already Andy"s read half of Gallipoli and wonders at it.  Bill and half the section after it.  Quinneys a great piece of writing - I read first in Liverpool last Sept. 12 months.  Harry was keen on it when he read it and recommended. 
 So far Harry D"s parcel hasn"t yet arrived. 
 57 The oil is that Baupaume has been occupied by our chaps.  The prayers of the heavens go up that this is true. 
 59 On the night of Monday, the first home letter directly addressed from the Dad and a great letter - one to be kept. 
 59 Syd. M. heard the "typical Australian" at a church service at the Anzac Cove hall in Albert.  As I remember the telling of it .. 
 "He sat in front of us, and as he came in I heard him say to his mate, 'Gaws 'truth, this"s the first time I"ve been inside a church" - the hall, you know it - 'for 15 years.  Its rather high church, there are two candles on either side of a crucifix, you know".  Well just as the Padre started his service, he knocked one of the candles over.  The chap in front turns to his mate, - and in a whisper, not intending to be funny for the benefit of chaps around, he whispered - I"ll bet he said '---- it" under 'is breath." 
 60 In his sleep talks:  "an Inf. song, sleeping next to Ridge - Come out of that bloody shell hole, Fritz!" 
 61 Last night in Albert - having cocoa at C.F. Buffet watching passing mounted company of our chaps - from watering lines - couldn"t help but be struck by individual picture presented, consummate grace, as of young Kings - lords of all.  The ride worthy and long.  Even without looking for it, the difference in the mounted Tommy and in our men is obvious. 
 62 Arrived as turning in - parcel of books from Harry D. - at Boulogne. 
 Library now, "The Honeysuckle" by d"Annuzio, Keats, "The Little Minister", Barrie, "City of Beautiful Nonsense", Thurston, "Love Among the Artists", Shaw, Burns" "Shakespere", Gallipoli", Masefield. 
 63  March 16 'Things were amok":  so Nick and self decided on a 'beano":  champagne, cakes, biscuits, dates and preserved fruits:  10 Francs on each, and the marquee the banquetting hall.  All the chaps jumped to it, we"d  all promised ourselves a spread when we came out this time and Cliff joined in.  Toby, Bill, Nick and self to Albert, packs up and we the purchasing party.  Though we 'came a grouter" on the cakes, biscuits made up.  It started sedately, ended extravagantly and splendidly.  Champagne a tenth each and half doz. Burgundy as sweetener.  Toasts were, Syd and Billy, the two new M.M."s, proposed by Tommy, seconded by Nick, and "The Sentimental Bloke and Australia" proposed by self in place of recitation, - and drunk standing with no seconding.  Apres?  toasts informal:  Bill obsessed by "Alaska" - Max on his audience, we theirs;  presentation to Ridge of old [indecipherable] and sang:  Songs out of tune.  We were all half gone - and Max took it hardly, when I told him to, 
 Take thy face hence, I am sick at heart. 
 Omar obsessed me and by time I"d finished, I was in bed. 
 A bonzer evening and we go in again. 