
48Last night"s sing song - "We don"t want a girl from ruined Flers", from Luisenhof, "from smashed la Barque", Thilloy, etc. - all the newly captured villages, and not a bad "Old King Cole" song - ranged as the "House that Jack Built" - a fairly compleat union - the final group -
Old King Cole was a merry old soul,A merry old soul was he,He called for his pipe and he calledfor his Fiddlers band and hecalled for his Colonels three.
I want six weeks leave said the Col"sI wantI want
We do all the work said the SubalternsCrown that man said the Serg. MajorMen to the right in 4"s said the Serg.Left, Right, Left, Right, Left said the Corporal,Been, Been, Been, said the Privates,Where is the wet canteen?For there"s none so rareThat can compareAn" the A.I.F. are where.
49Today quiet and cold:  snowing and then the sun - contradictions all day long:  Heaven"s heaped up pearly clouds over a purple Flers - and cloudy yellow smoke and flashes of shrapnel - then clouds of earth for H.E."s.
50   March 9Quiet again and cold.  Few casualties.  Fritz again got the line, now nearly to Luisenhof.
51  Becaudles, C.R.S., March 11
March 10From 8 p.m. last night surprises innumerable.  At 8 a runner - Ern turned up with word of relief coming, the 6th F. Amb.  In an hour they turned up and took possession.  Left all rations and at 9.20 left our posts, Whizz-Bang Corner, Luisenhof and Factory Corner - and started on to the A.D.S.  Arrived Byzantin le Petit about midnight - they"d tea and [indecipherable] ready for us - and a rum issue and turned in.
March 10.  Up at about 9 a.m., word that A and C sections were to move off by train at midday for Fricourt or Becaudles and attach ourselves to the 7 F. Amb.  Arrived Becaudles Rest Camp about 2 p.m. and hearing from Cliff some of us were elected for the wards.  Harold and self took on Mess work (and a bonzer job it"s proved).  Tea at 4.45 and half of the section in one party about 8 off to Albert to see the Dandy show there - the one run by the A.I.F.  A good show, two Sydney chaps amongst them, Harold Williams and Jimmy Little both from Liverpool, which I was and both worth listening to with their encores.  I"d like to see Little again in "The Prayer" but ... such prurience not for us.  Even his first piece - a war piece brings too much with it.  Back at the station, supper - the basic biscuits from Meaulte and Albert and Byzantin - pres. fruit and de Reske cigarettes.
Last night the first night since Jan. 24 slept with tunic off.
52Walking down to Albert yarning with Bill and Reg.  Reg breaks into song and a longing to dinner.
For the last week I"ve dreamed of nothing but song and dances, sumptuous ballroom and beautiful women.  Ye Gods to dance again!  And I"ve slept to visions of all publications of the Riccardi Press - the Florentine Press and half of Babford books being mine - to visions of a large roomed rambling cottage well back in its own ground, of pictures by only Australians, Lindsay, Mark & White and Thea Proctor other sketches, drawings and paintings and books and furnishings all working in one great scheme of beauty and [indecipherable] and comfort.  Who to preside over it all?