
77   "Senlis"  March 27Yesterday from Aveluy Wood through Albert to Becordel:  arrived there 15 minutes, orders to "pack up" again and parade at Orderley Room in 10 minutes - to guard another dump:  this time an old Rest Station.  Motored to here, Senlis, with Billy, Max and Blake - and a 'cushier" guard than Aveluy.
78At Becordel Toby had small parcel for self - Lethaby"s "Architecture", "Art of Theatre" of Craig"s out of print - so tonight wrote to Hoofe asking for Tagore"s "The Hungry Stones".  Paid at Becordel 100 Francs.
79The Station, on the crest of a hill overlooking Senlis - a once typically French village in the hollow, amongst its trees, surrounding its church and Chateau.
We look over from the No. 5 F. Amb. of the Tommies - and few rations - margarine - half a case, Biscuits, Huntly and Palmers No. 5, a side of Beef (a mutton, I think beef), Bacon, ten hams, cases of Soup, Pork and Beans and Ideal Milk.  Bread is only lacking - or will be in a few days:  then if we can"t draw from the town Mayor - a part of the civilian population are back - if when later - we"ll have to draw from Becordel.
The N.E. corner of Aveluy Wood that we left yesterday was good, this is heaven:  no comfort is lacking - even porrige, eggs and steak:  "Laus Deo" - may it last for weeks - aye - months.  Even a case of books we unearthed - amongst them two pocket editions of Shakespere and Locke"s "Fortunate Youth".
The civilian population:  out of all the barns and old billeting cottages, say a dozen, are now occupied - and in half of these there"s a miniature canteen.
This morning early, say 7.30, Max woke us up:  "did we hear anyone?"  In one of the near huts there were high voices and high jinks:  we turned over.  Max volunteered to investigate.  Silence after a few minutes - and then "Ah, Bill!  Bill"!!
We turned out, and Max came in.  Some of these "French ----" were pinching the stove from the Mess hut - half the meat had gone, also a case of Pork and Beans.
We went after them:  they - two women 300 yards down just entering the fringe of village and two hang just behind them.  We drove them to earth - their cottage - and looked for the town Mayor - and couldn"t find him.  We came back - by the road this time - and round the corner full into us blows an old little dame, apron bulging with loot, and three hurricane lamps swinging on her arm.  An officer in the camp had given them her!!  Reluctantly after threats she gave up the booty - and then chased us for a "souvenir".
This afternoon under the portent of buying chocolate, I went into the cottage and traced the first looters too:  when I opened the door, a woman, lank and ghastly faced, rose, recognised the hat, and started back.  Thank the immortal God the