  
 120  Midnight 20-21   April 20 The past day warmer and brighter than any of last several.  Full dugout early this morning - all French part of 2nd Batt.  At 9 the 18 pounder batteries behind us brought up to in between our dugout two of their guns, and during day fired 18 50 rounds....  After 5 p.m. on the Boche replied with 4 11" stuff had driven the battery out with before.  The guns back to their positions early before darkness. 
 Grouting in the village and about the R.A.P. Bay... 1 sandbag of white turnips, 1 perambulator... and a small number of daffodils.  Grouted also, of importance above all these, some small exercise books for writing ... one half filled by short sentences in French and Deutsch. 
 121 1.30 a.m.  From Headquarters warning that we"re sending gas over at 3 - and Capt. Lee"s been grouting all day for a Bon helmet. 
 122 4.10 a.m.  Finished Book 1 of "Endymion", read page on one of first poems in book and part of Lethaby"s Architecture.  Last chapter of the book clear and well written and well readable. 
 Half an hour ago about bombardment in the sector quietened down - and this instant the 18 pounders behind have opened again.  On the left by the shelling evidently the tommies have had and are still having a bit of a stunt. 
 123  5.15 a.m.   April 22 Yesterday about 20 T feet cases evacuated from 2nd Batt., no wounded.  Now in the line the bad weather of last week and early this week is responsible for a terrible weakening of the Battalions.  If it goes on much longer the 1st will  have to be withdrawn for a while - till reinforcements arrive ... where from?  God knows. 
 124 From a Sig. of the 2nd just in, wounded laying lines learn that "Tim" is an officer in that Batt.  Must drop him a line.  The Sig. chap here waiting is fixing his killed cobber"s papers and effects to send to his mother... of their son that sailed away a few papers and cards return. 
 Just now, a shelling night.  The Boche landed hereabouts a lot of his shells but did no damage. 
 125 Mat in his last letter - of Tasmania from Goulburn - wondering at the beauty of a sunrise in the Island suddenly realises the difference in the peace and beauty than amid the horror and blood here ...  But even here beauty too as she ever was:  even a hideously ruined, smashed and wreaked village has its beautiful effects - skeleton silhouettes against wonderful cloud banked skies - a skylark carolling over the rotting dead of no-mans land, and the bright sun patchy through the clouds on the endless hills. 
 126 Tonight duty till midnight:  now 9.40.  There"s been the last half hour a heavy bombardment by the 22nd - and his S.O. have gone up.  Now with exception of occasional long distance shell passing and our 18 pounders bark with short staccato choruses of machine gun, line quiet.  To read and finish Hamlet. 
 Rumours of relief confirmed today and most probably the 32nd Tommy F.A. will relieve us tomorrow or Tuesday. 
 A quiet uneventful day - at midnight last night I woke from a troubled sleep and lay awake till Lofty called me.  A trip into Hermies for wood - one to the rail for coke and one to Cliff"s post to buy grouted books. 