
351In a wonderful monument of Doric severity and all Greek beauty to our Infantry boys - for the imagination to conceive one worthy of them - will some day appear in return of bronze Rupert Brook"s "Blow Bugle Blow over your rich dead".
In my mind"s eye I can see the whole magnificent structure, of details wonderful but not so wonderful as the entirety.  A great circular Doric colonnade supporting a great dome - in rich grey trachyte, a frieze of Metopes sculptured in high square relief ... and enshrined in this open Temple such a bronze as Rodin"s "Thinker".
352  Dec. 21Lindsay - your cartoons are great - they"re part of the Bulletin"s great attraction to me, your bears and kookaburras - jove that last page was fine - we"ve laughed over - and with not all laughter in our hearts, but your last:  "Thumbs down" in Oct. 19 number - that was too hard.  The Bulli"s our paper right enough, lots that hurts.  God if those who turned their "Thumbs down" unthinkingly could only see one part of the stark misery of mud, sun and water logged trenches - if they could see their Infantry living in hell for them - to know their names clean they"d be haunted by those sights till eternity closed in upon them.  Sometimes carrying them their generous and now heartbroken have driven all my mind blank - blank but for one thought - and he"ll say "Thanks digger! - Cobber" when we"ve got him to the post - and mean it.
353Wrote to Jake today - and advised him to rest on his laurels, leave the O.T.C. and the 43 Batt. alone, and join up the 1st.  If he does he"ll be satisfied.
354  Dec. 22Lindsay"s Thumbs down cartoons."Cripes don"t 'e get some expression into his people!"
"Ah, that"s a bit over the fence, you wouldn"t think a man would put it on paper."
"An" my boy, in from the line, shrapnel in the head".  The Bastards":  and another, with a laugh of no humour - "An institution under strength, an" has been since Pozieres.  Thumbs down!"
Lindsay, "The Proposed Betrayal" was a beautiful cartoon - in your best manner, but a hundred such will wipe out Thumbs down.
355  Dec. 24
Dear Bill - Things is crook - Jim.
Half a dozen of us "chatting" - and not saying a word - broke up a Bridge Party and a hunt on a large scale followed.  I caught 10-4 of them just hatched.
356If yarning over old times already fills such a decent morning, what will it be like "apres la guerre".  An evening in deep chairs, the Theatre, and another yarn till morning.
"In all pleasures, there is an element of cruelty".  What a terrible element of cruelty will be in the existence home - almost wholely cruel to those to whom none return.  And the Spring offensive yet before us.
357Today wrote to Merridens - and forwarded with the note 15 F. - ordering Burns Poems and Hamlet - both in Nelsons New Literary Library - and shows love among the artists, also Vachell"s Quinney as a play.  When I can, no matter the condition, I"m going to keep what books I can with me.
358  Dec. 26"Crool fortun" 'ad us snorted just a treat".
After the quietest and most boring day in the hut, at 5 yesterday afternoon went to report on duty at the evacuation tent for 24 hours duty, but it was a missing in anguish.  Fritz had handed over his Christmas "Iron Rations" and we"d a full night of carrying.  Three chaps died just after leaving dressing tent.