Amiens
12/7/16
 There is an intermediate altar at the near end of the choir screen, which is elaborate ironwork. The High Altar is designed with a background of sky effect. Huge clouds with the sun in the centre its rays of gold shooting out on each side. There is a golden statue of a mitred dignity above the altar. Behind the altar Canon Lucy is buried there is a monument to him a tablet surrounded by weeping angel children considered one the finest in the world. We were not allowed to ascend the spire as doing so renders the Cathedral fair game for the enemy. On the outside of the choir stalls is stonework depicting the life of John the BaptiSt. All the people are dressed in 13th century clothes. In a cabinet encased in gold and surrounded by precious stones is a tiny fragment of bone once belonging to the Baptist so they say. Outside the west wall away to other statues are noticeable 2 monks praying both laughing and looking very comical. 
After leaving the Cathedral we went round the town walked through the main streets which in places are quite as busy as Alexandria. Fine shops of all kinds especially military outfitters. French officers and soldiers are everywhere the former looking very smart and alert. Talking to some one says "What pretty ?ats you ?ave!". Very nice fellows. Had strawberries cream then dinner of Hote d? Universe. 
We left our horses at a hotel had a devil of a job harnessing up as the man knew more about motors than about horses had all the gear most horribly mixed up. Eventually we got away reached home late after a really most enjoyable day. The glory of Amiens is its wonderful church. With revisiting it and saturating ourselves with its beauties and every minute disclosing something more to charm. The Museum was closed during the war and there is nothing else much to see. Numerous canals intersect the lower portions of the town. It is a lovely old town and its good to see nice people in the streets. Amiens is the Samarobriva of the Ceaserean era.