St. Omer
11/7/16
 Wakened up about 12.30 p.m. by the squealing of Mademoiselles and sounds of much merriment from the estaminet portion of the premises. Got the sentry to call the Corporal of the guard (O?Bierne) and gave him orders to take the names of the revellers and to clear the place. Rose at 2.15 a.m. shaved and breakfasted, found the midnight revellers included Sgts. Stone, Bodinnar Glasscock so got the Sergt. Major to parade them and read them a lecture. 
Left at 3.40 a.m., had a short rest at the starting point and then set off on our road again. Very pleasant in the growing dawn swinging along, the air heavy with the fragrance of new mown hay. The heavy packs made the halts welcome although we are now blanketless having returned all ours to store. Through Arques in which is a peculiarly shaped mill tower which reminded me of the Bishop Hatto legend. Turned alongside the canal Neuf Fosse marched into St. Omer. Quite a lot of military other barges on the canal many marked with the Red Cross. The railway station is on the north of the town. On the left hand side coming in is a tall church or abbey tower. The body of the place seems to be in ruins. 
Coming along the towpath we passed a number of young people of the poorer class carrying hoes going out to work in the fields. Comments: "B--- going to work. Another: "Crise! Tivey's crowd!" 
We entrained with all our transport into a train composed mostly of trucks with a few carriages for the officers. The men were in the familiar trucks taking "40 hommes" each. In Renescure the other night some diversion was caused by one of our chaps knocking at a door of a house where a rather elaborately garbed mademoiselle dwelt. Our friends kept calling out a price in hopes of getting the door opened. Rap, rap, rap, 40 francs m'selle. No answer. Rap, rap, rap m'selle. No answer. 50 francs m'selle. Rap, rap, rap. No answer. ?F? --- yer!! 
The French railways are very up to date their engines splendid. Not much of the town can be seen from the station. The leading section on the march today was very good at whistling and made the distance pass quickly. Left at 8 a.m. and passed through varied country until we came within about 10 miles of Calais. A good deal of marshy land intersected by canals. Some varied.