<p class="page" id="a5993027">[Page 27]</p>
<p>proved to be very little sleep for anyone that night for the boys were awoken after midnight by a gas alarm, everyone having to stand to with their gas masks on this lasting for some considerable time. When to boys finally settled down for a well earned rest in was breaking day but they were allowed to sleep until midday when a good meal was issued  &amp; all made good use of it. The stay in the billet at Sailly lasted several day the troops having very little to do there having a good rest so I made use of the spare time in having a good look round the ruins of the town. The ruins were numerous houses being completely demolished by shell fire  &amp; the old church was considerably damaged many direct hits having been obtained but the steeple was still intact. The only drill we had was a few short route marches  &amp; during one of these the battalion was taken through the town of Estaires. It is a fine big place with terraces of big which stone buildings having a fair population  &amp; at that time used as a big railway centre by the military authorities. The battalion left Sailly with full gear up on the 9th July  &amp; after a long march, passing through the village of Outerstiene was finally halted in a big paddock on the outskirts of Merris. Before the battalion was dismissed a general kit inspection was held by the Colonel, this occupy about an hour. That night we had to bivouac in the open with the sky for a roof all being pleased when the sun shone next morning. Late the following afternoon the 10th the battalion set of again marching to the railway yards at Ballieul where we had to wait until 3 AM next morning when the troops were entrained in cattle trucks. Bailleul appeared to be a fine big place from what could be seen of it whilst passing through in the dark. The troops were not extra comfortable about the train for they were cramped forty men to a truck  &amp; they with all their occupied every square inch of room available. Before the train moved I was detailed as one of a train piquet</p>