<p class="page" id="a5993062">[Page 62]</p>
<p>During the stay in this camp we had nothing to do so spent our spare time in having a look round Albert also managing to get a hot bath &amp; clean change of underclothing which was very acceptable. We left this camp at Albert on Sunday 31st December 1916 on falling in prior to moving off found our party had increased considerably for it then consisted of officers &amp; N.C.O's from each battalion in the 1st Division. After the fall in we marched about half a mile where we were put aboard waiting motor lorries then when all was ready started to move. The ride lasted a couple of hours passing through several small villages &amp; Amiens enroute finally alighting at La Chaussie when we found we had to march about a mile to the school at Tirancourt. The school was situated in a big white chateau, an old French residence, on the northern bank of the Somme River being surrounded by beautiful grounds which had been let go to ruin owing to the war. before being dismissed the party was checked off then detailed to our quarters which were in the stables belonging to the chateau &amp; were very cold &amp; uncomfortable. Next morning when the parade fell in we were told off into Syndicates there being about eight N.C.O's each then started on our course of training. The routine as layed down consisted chiefly of musketry &amp; field management at it affected infantry regiments which although hard proved very interesting. The inspection of self appearance was exceptionally keen this taking place each morning when the troops were compelled to stand in the intense cold for three quarters of an hour while the inspection was being carried out &amp; in many cases men fainted in the lines caused by standing in the cold. The drill finished at 4 PM of a day &amp; the troops were then able to visit the neighbouring villages on leave the largest of these being Picquiney where I spent some very decent evenings. On Sunday leave was granted to Amiens having to go by train from Picquiney  the fare being 2 &frac12; d. I spent several days in Amiens &amp; had some very good times for it is one of France's largest city being situated astride the famous Somme river which flows right through the centre. It has some fine big buildings including the Railway Station, rows of business places &amp; numbers of Public buildings of a kind which are generally to be found in any city throughout the world. The Cathedral is a massive place of great workmanship at that time the base outside was protected by huge barracades of sand bags which had been to protect the building from enemy shells &amp; bombs. There is also a good tram service throughout the city which was well patronized by the hundreds of British &amp; French soldiers who were on leave. The stay at the school lasted four weeks &amp; during that time we experienced some very cold weather with snow falling frequently &amp; a big freeze set in which enabled the troops to go skating on the numerous small ponds on the banks of the river which had been frozen hard. our term at the school finished on Saturday the 27th January 1917 &amp; that afternoon we left the school in motor lorries alighting at the Anzac reinforcement camp in Albert after  few hours rough rise. It was late next morning when the troops were aroused for breakfast then after  a walk through the town set out to find the battalion who were up in the forward area, about 1 PM. After marching all that afternoon our officer in charge decided to call a halt about dusk &amp; on making inquiries we were put into tents belonging to the 49th Battalion for the night. The major of this camp was very decent to us for after fixing us up with tents sent along a dixie of hot tea followed by a big rum issue which was very acceptable for the night was bitterly cold. we resumed our journey after breakfast next morning but did not have far to go for the battalion where I was informed that my platoon was at Highwood some two miles away</p>