<p class="page" id="a5993055">[Page 55]</p>
<p>Next day the 2nd November I was detailed with a party to visit the support line which was held by B Company. We went up by way of a communication trench which was in a terrible condition for the mud was knee deep &amp;  throughout the whole way us we were considerably troubled by enemy shells but eventually the party reached the support line quite fagged out but suffering no casualties. The support line was situated in the Eastern side of a sunken road called "Cheese Road" it being a terrible place for the mud &amp;   slush was even deeper here than previously experienced, taking a terrible lot of trouble to try and drain the dug outs. No one was allowed past this road during the day for it was under observation by the enemy who front line was only about five hundred yards away. Several small villages could be seen from her also a big chimney stack &amp;   steeple which belongs to the city of Bapaume could be seen away in the distance. After having a good look round, finding out as much as possible about the position our party returned to reserves via another route which proved to be far better to the one we had travelled going up. On the way back our path lay past a big British tank which evidently had been put out of action by a fair size shell which had by all appearance penetrated the armament setting fire to the petrol tank for the charred remains of the occupants could be seen also several other articles that had been burned. That night was spent in our water logged reserve trench but owing to a little forethought the boys had made themselves as dry &amp;   comfortable as circumstances would permit so the night past over with the usual little growl. The following night our company relieved B company in supports with No 1 platoon taking over a part of the front line. While in this position we experienced some very heavy artillery fire but luckily the casualties were very few. The 4th of November proved to be an exceptionally unlucky day for our battalion as our Colonel Howell price was wounded which later proved fatal, his loss being much felt by all for he had proved himself a thorough soldier, leader &amp;   a Gentleman. It happened that two platoons were changing over on the front line, this having to be done overland, about five AM under cover of a heavy fog which suddenly lifted exposing the men to the view of the enemy snipers who soon became busy wounding eight men of the relieving platoon. The Colonel had evidently been informed of this for he soon made his way to the front line to investigate &amp;   while trying to locate the sniper, with his head above the parapet, received a bullet in the cheek. It was a terrible sad sight to see him being carried out on a stretcher &amp;   as he passed our trench in supports all hand stood to attention in respect for it could be seen he was in great pain. He was taken back to the Casualty Clearing Station at Healy where he died three days later being buried in the same village. That same night the 1st &amp;   3rd Battalion had to carry out a small local stunt, captured a strong point &amp;   a line of trenches, under extreme conditions which cause the operation to be unsuccessful. Before the troops hopped out a midnight it began to rain very heavy which made things very uncomfortable for when they did hop out the mud was very deep which made the progress across no-mans land very slow. The 1st Battalion were unfortunate for Fritz must have known or heard them for he gave them an unmerciful reception with machine guns, making it that hot under extreme conditions that they were compelled to retire with many casualties. Meanwhile our battalion had been much more fortunate for they gained their objective with only a couple of casualties but killed &amp;  wounded a large number of the enemy. I appeared that the huns in this particular part had just relieved the front lined &amp;   had not had enough time to get into proper fighting order before our battalion had reminded them that the war was still on.</p>