<p class="page" id="a5993058">[Page 58]</p>
<p>Bevenacourt arriving there after dark when the boys were put under big tarpaulins having to be cramped in so as to afford shelter for all. Next morning the battalion assembled then set off on the march along muddy road to Friecourt passing the Prince of Wales during the march. On arriving at Friecourt we were allotted to small dug outs which were very comfortable   &amp; that night a big concert was organized being held around a big fire providing some welcome amusement for the boys. next morning the 15th saw us on the move again this time going as far as Buire where we were put into good billets which were a blessing after our long turn up in the mud. It was fairly late in the afternoon when the boys settled down after having a real good wash this having to be done without soap for the boys had not received their packs which were taken from them before we went into the line. After a good meal had been done justice too I made my way to bed enjoying the most comfortable sleep for some time. Next morning we received our packs &amp; was then able to have a good wash, shave &amp; brush up which made us feel civilized once more. The remainder of the day was spent in cleaning the mud off our clothes and equipment, which by this was dry but took some getting off. That night several of us went to a vaudeville show which was being given by a Tommy Motor Transport Concert party some two miles away from our billet but still had a very enjoyable evening. During the 17th the battalion left Buire in motor lorries &amp; after passing through Amiens &amp; several small villages alighted at Flessels where the troops were all allotted to good billets. I was a very cold night but on getting up next morning found that it had been snowing very heavily during the night having about two inches which was the first of the season. While billetted in this village parade ground work &amp; general reorganizing of the battalion was the chief training indulged in. One afternoon while here "A" Company played "D" Company football which proved a one sided game for "A" won by 33 points to nil. The life outside of parade was very quiet for there was absolutely no amusements in the village as the boys spent their spare time in playing cards or visiting their mates in other battalions for the whole of our Brigade was billetted in the same village. leave was granted to a very small percentage to Amiens but I was unlucky &amp; did not get leave to that city. Somebody evidently found out that the 3rd Battalion was having too good a time for on the 25th we received orders to pack up &amp; during the afternoon were packed into motor lorries which were soon moving back towards the forward area. The motors took us back to Buire where we alighted then set off on foot marching about two miles where we were halted &amp; after standing about for over an hour in the cold &amp; rain was told that there was no accommodation available so we were about turned having to march back to Buire where we were allotted to tents. This camp was in a disgraceful condition for owing to the rain &amp; snow the mud was ankle deep many of the tents having no board flooring which meant that some of the boys had to sleep in the mud &amp; slush as well as paddling about in all day. During the first weeks stay in this camp our company was detailed on fatigue duty at Dernacourt an adjoining village, reveille being at 5 AM each morning then having to march three miles to work. The duties consisted of working in a big army saw mill where we were ably assisted by a number of hun prisoners-of-was who appeared to ne most conscientious &amp; obedient carrying out the duties allotted to them receiving good treatment in return. The other jobs were repairing billets &amp; putting wire bunk into them to afford more accommodation for billetting of troops also getting stone from a big quarrie for road making the stone being carried away in motor lorries. The duties were welcomed by our boys for it was so different</p>