<p class="page" id="a5993007">[Page 7]</p>
<p>being instructed in boat drill, all being allotted to life boats in case of accidents during the voyage. There were 1500 troops on board consisting of the 7th Reinforcement for the 17th, 18th, 19th &amp; 20th Battalions &amp; the 12th Reinforcement of the 13th Battalion each reinforcement being 300 strong. A submarine guard was formed, there being 15 men from each reinforcement to which I was detailed, our duties being to fire on the periscope of a submarine should one attack us. Each day the guard was put through rifle exercises, musketry, aiming etc, this excluding me from all other duties aboard ship. On the 28th December man was arrested on board &amp; put in the guard room as being a suspected spy but on enquiring into his case he was released. Things began to get very quiet Xmas Day arriving without any fuss the troops having to be satisfied with greasy pork &amp; ship plum pudding for dinner. During the 2nd day of the New year it was found that one of our reinforcement had fallen overboard, it casting a dull spell over the ship for he was a very bright chap &amp; liked by all whom he came in contact with him. It was never found out how he fell overboard, but his blankets were found hanging over the side from the top deck where he had been accustomed to sleeping since leaving Sydney. A few days later things began to get busy for we had to prepare for the crossing of the line which took place about 2 pm on the 11th of January. A Big canvas tank was erected on the forward well deck being filled with salt water pumped in from the ocean by the ships pump. Father Neptune &amp; family were in attendance &amp; throughout the performance which consisted mostly of ducking one another in the tank, the boys had a very enjoyable time, which broke the monotony of sea life that had begun to envelope the ship &amp; all aboard. After leaving Cape Leeuwin, Western Australia, neither land or ship was sighted until 11 AM on 14th January 1916 when Cape Gardefewee, the most easterly point of Africa came in sight it being a treat for sore eyes. On passing the cape the ship entered the Gulf of Eden passing Eden during the early morn of the 16th. At 9.30 AM the same day we passed close to the "Jugla-Paw" Light House which is situated on the top of a great rock rising straight out of the sea having a very spectacular appearance. During the remainder of the day we passed a group of islands known as the "Twelve Apostles" which were only made of rock, uninhabited, standing out of the sea. The next morning we passed more islands following close by the coast of Africa most of the day. A peculiarity of these islands is that they are huge masses of Iguana rock which is used as a fertilizer, some of them being quarried to a very great extent &amp; the rock taken away in ships. On the 20th of January we were given a Red Cross issue of underclothing the second since leaving Sydney, also being told about the sinking of the passenger ship "Persia" in the Meditteranean Sea. That same day the troops were all issued with twenty four hours rations, consisting of biscuits &amp; bully beef, which was to be taken ashore with us when we landed. Early next morning the ship arrived outside Port Suez dropping anchor well out from the land. out beside &amp; ahead of us could be seen several Man-o-wars &amp; naval craft mixed in with a number of big liners all laying at anchor. Dozens of native craft with three cornered sails were sailing about loading &amp; unloading cargo from the ships at anchor. The town of Suez could be seen quite plainly, the first thing that strikes the eye is a number of big white oil tanks which are right at the waters edge. During the afternoon the "Caloola" an Australian Hospital Ship pull out from the wharf laden with troops bound for home &amp; as the ship crossed our bow deafing cheers rang out from both ships. We remained anchored out in the stream all that night</p>