<p class="page" id="a5993037">[Page 37]</p>
<p>During the march we passed through the village of Warloy where we found the Aussie Fourth Brigade who were attached to our Fourth Division were billetted waiting their turn to go in the front line after our Second Division who had relieved us. As we passed through the village the Fourth Brigade lined the streets as we passed cheering themselves hoarse for they had been told of our success in the offensive but little did they realize what they were in for when their turn arrived. The march was not very long finishing at Vadencourt the next village past Warloy where the battalion was taken into huts which were situated in the centre of a big forest. here the troops received there packs then being able to have a wash shave &amp; brush up the first we had since the 19th July this being the 28th. before going to bed that night I went back to Warloy for a couple of hours &amp; while there I met some of my pre-war mates having a real good talk over old times they being in the  13th Battalion. They of course were very curious about the front line so I told them what I knew about it but knowing they were going in for their turn I did not make it appear as bad as it really was for I knew they would find all that out quite quick enough. I lef Warloy about 9 o'clock making my way back to the battalion &amp; it was not long before I lay down for the most comfortable sleep for some days. The troops were allowed to rest all the next day but received instructions to be ready to move after tea. The battalion was lined up about dusk setting off on the march which proved to be a long one &amp; being at night it seemed much longer than it really was. The march terminated at La Vicogne where our company was taken into an orchard being told to make ourselves as comfortable as possible for the only covering was the tree' &amp; sky. All the boys managed to get a fair share of sleep but after breakfast next morning the battalion was on the march once more going as far as Bonneville where we were put into billets. our stay at Bonneville lasted about eighteen hours for on the 30th July we moved to the village of Pernois a pretty village on the banks of the Somme river. Our company was allotted to real good billet being informed that we were to remain there for a few days going through training &amp; reorganizing after our time at Pozieres. Pernois was a very quiet place undisturbed by war in outward appearance which was much appreciated by all hands for it gave everyone a chance to recouperate &amp; forget about the horrors of war also the stunt through which they had recently passed. leave was given to the boys to enable them to visit neighbouring villages the largest of these being St Ouens where I spent some very good afternoons &amp; evenings. Training was carried out on a very strenuous scale for we were told that the battalion was booked for another turn in the front line in the big offensive which necessitated in everyone being as fit as possible. The battalion also received a draft of reinforcements which party filled the much depleted ranks but the battalion was still completely understrength. At reveille on the 9th August orders were issued for all kits be got ready to move &amp; that day the battalion started to wend its way back towards the front line going as far as La Vicogne where were put into the same orchard as previously mentioned to rest until the next day. The next morning after breakfast the battalion was on the move again going as far as Herrisart where we were allotted to billets being told that our stay here was to last a couple of days. The time spent in this village was in drill &amp;  field manoeuvres chiefly which was all training for the front line. We remained at Herrisart until the 14th August when the battalion moved to Vadencourt where we were allotted to the same huts in the big forrest which we occupied when coming out of Pozieres. The stay here lasted less than twenty four hours when we were</p>