<p class="page" id="a5993052">[Page 52]</p>
<p>During the 13th of October we received orders to pack up all our gear ready to move off for the battalion was to be relieved that night. Just before dusk I had to go to Ypres where I met a platoon of the 14th Battalion then guide them to the position occupied by my platoon after which I guided my boys back to the Railway yard at Ypres. We had to wait some time for a train &amp; when it arrived we were put aboard then taken near Poperinghe. On disentraining the battalion was met by the band which had been left out of the line, who played us to the camp at Dominion Lines which was reached about 11 PM &amp; all turned in. The troops were awakened by an early reveille next morning being told to pack all gear ready to move off after breakfast. breakfast had hardly time to settle down when the Sergeant Major could be heard calling out "fall in A Company" so the troops once more obeyed with about a hundred pounds on their back. It did not take long for the battalion to assemble &amp; was soon swinging along the road passing through several small villages, also through the outskirts of Cassel which appeared to be a fine place. The march came to an end at Godewarsvelde that afternoon our platoon being allotted to a big barn for a billet. That night accompanied by a mate we went into the village to have a look round also have tea if it could be purchased. We found a very decent caf&eacute; where a good tea was enjoyed then went for a look round. The village was kept very clean the people here were of a good type who appeared to be keenly interested in our boys also being very civil &amp; polite. After having a good time we returned to the billet early &amp; turned in to bunk. next morning the 15th saw the battalion on the move once more marching as far as Arneke a nice little village which  was situated in a big valley. The whole of our company will billeted in several barns belonging to a big farm house where the boys were able to get any amount of eggs &amp; milk for a very reasonable price. Our stay at Arneke lasted overnight &amp; night morning we were on the march once more this time having an exceptionally long march which terminated at a village called Estmont where the whole battalion was put into a big chateau. it was a fine building with big pawns being surrounded by hunting grounds also a lake &amp; many fine ornamental trees. The battalion spent a few days here being engaged in drill which the Colonel said was to keep the troops fit. On the 19th I was detailed with my platoon bombing section to visit the Divisional Bombing school &amp; had to march about three miles there where each man threw one live bomb &amp; returned home competent bombers with practical experience. This day was also set apart for the first polling by the troops on conscription which was quite a novelty causing much excitement but by the general discussion of the troops it was turned down. The next move took place the following night the 20th when the Battalion left the chateau having to march to the Railway yards at St Omer where we were put into cattle trucks there being fourty men to each. It was early next morning when  the train started to move &amp; we were saying farewell to the two months spell just completed on a quiet front which had been promised us on coming out of Pozieres the second time. The spell in Belgium had been welcomed by all for we had an idea that the future was to bring even more strenuous &amp; hardships with it. our thought were on the future as the journey progressed but we resolved ourselves to our fate.</p>