<p class="page" id="a5993065">[Page 65]</p>
<p>during that time no man was allowed away from the camp for orders were expected any moment to move forward. The expected move took place early on the night of the 27th when the battalion left Bazentin fully equiped ready for any emergency. When about a third of the journey had been completed petrol tins containing two gallons of water had to be picked up by every second man for a tin was to be carried between two men receiving strict instructions to make every effort in getting water to our destination. This water made a very great difference to the already over loaded troops but with the usual amount of growling they plodded along their way through mud &amp; shell torn ground. After passing our old front line at the Maize our path was marched by a broard white tape which was to guide the incoming troops over the ground which had been vacated by the Huns during the dark hours of night. The progress across this vacated ground was very slow &amp; strenuous having to pass over three of the huns lines which had been severely battered by our artillery during the past winter. After passing the third line we enter  a big wood through which we passed then into the village of La Barque where we proceeded along the roads of the old village which were in good repair. We went to the far side of the village where the troops were taken into a big chalk pit where a short rest was enjoyed. After a while we moved out to the right from the pit to dig a support trench to the Eleventh Battalion who had that night advanced a few hundred yards. The ground we had to dig this trench in was virgin soil so far as warfare was concerned the grass being about three inches high &amp; not disturbed by a shell hole. This was a sight for sore eyes in front line work after so much mud &amp; slush which had been experienced during the past winter. After digging for about an hour orders were issued to prepared to move forward which was done &amp; we went through the village of Thillay where we relieved the</p>