<p class="page" id="a5993107">[Page 107]</p>
<p>On the 16th of May the Brigade held sports just out side the village of Circus when all sorts of Running, jumping, &amp; athletic, handicaps &amp; championships were indulged in. It provided a splendid days enjoyment, for all events were keenly contested by some excellent talent, the whole event seeming to draw the four battalions of the Brigade closer together than they had ever been before. Everyone returned to their respective billets that night feeling quite satisfied with themselves, also the whole days experiences. Two days later the 18th the battalion was marched to Bourre where we were put into tents for in most cases, at this time the troops were scattered about in the open, to save casualties, for billetting was unsafe owing to the Huns liking to shelling &amp; bombing houses and barns. When the battalion was preparing for the front line I was detailed to stay out of the line with the Neuclas battalion, for each time the Battalion went into the front line a certain number were left out &amp; it  so happened that this time was my turn. I also received orders to the effect that that I was  to be ready to proceed to a Musketry School of Instruction when called upon. During the afternoon of the 20th the Neuclas Battalion packed up then marched back to Priddelles, which was not far from Hazebrouck, where we were allotted to very comfortable quarters in an old farm Barn, &amp; that same night the battalion went forward to relieve the front line. During the stay at Priddelles the Neuclas was engaged on barb wiring fatigues in reserves of a day with nothing whatever to do of a night. On the 25th I received orders to pack up ready for the school which was soon done then caught a motor lorry to Divisional Headquarters which was then situated at St. Sylvestre Cappel. On arriving at Headquarters I found that there were N.C.Os from all the Twelve Battalion of the Division there, who were all going to the Musketry school. As soon as everybody was ready the whole party of N.C.Os were put aboard Motor Lorries which were soon rattling along the road until we arrived at the Divisional Pay office in Ebblinghem where each man was given a full pay. When everyone was paid we proceeded on our journey which terminated at the 22D Army Musketry School at Lumbres. On leaving the motors the party was marched up in to the school where I was allotted to a hut with two other Aussies &amp; seventeen Imperial N.C.Os, then on being fixed up with a bunk, several of us started out to explore the village of Lumbres. Lumbres is a fair size town, the people generally being of a very decent character &amp; after spending an enjoyable evening we returned to camp about 10 p.m. then turned in. Next morning on parade the troops were informed that the School would last a fortnight, the training consisting of a trained soldiers course &amp; it would be necessary for all to pass an examination before the end of the term. The work proved very interesting for a great deal of range shooting was carried out, combined with practical theory. The first Sunday at the school a mate &amp; I was granted leave to St. Omer, a city about eight miles away, &amp; the only means we had of getting there was to catch a motor lorry going in that direction on duty. However we were lucky for after walking about half a mile we managed to catch a lorry which took us right into the city. We spent a very pleasant day in the city for it is a big place having many places of interest, but at this time the city was only half occupied for many of the French people had evacuated when the Huns first pushed in Flanders. We set out for the camp about dusk &amp; as our luck was against us we had to walk for there seemed to be no motor traffic going in our direction. After walking about three miles we went &amp; had supper</p>