<p class="page" id="a5993080">[Page 80]</p>
<p>The written examination took place on the 13th August 1917 the results of which were announced two days later when I found I had succeeded in gaining a pass with 63 per cent. Our good times at the school came to an close on the 17th August when all hands were given a pay &amp; three days leave. I decided to spend my three days at Bournemouth so left Tidworth by train that night &amp; after changing trains at Andover &amp; Salisbury arrived at Bournemouth about 10.30PM that night. Bournemouth is a fine seaside resort beautifully laid out with big lawns, gardens &amp; walks which provide plenty of scope for sight seeing there also being plenty of accommodation in the city for visitors &amp; tourists. The beach is a very nice white sand, there also being a big Pier which extends out into the sea for a couple of hundred yards on which the band plays of an afternoon &amp; evening. I spent three very pleasant days here for the weather remained fine the whole time &amp; there was also a good assortment of amusements to pass the time away. I left Bournemouth at 6PM on the Monday night arriving back in camp at 10.30PM feeling very sorry for myself after such good times. Next day I had to face the work on the parade ground once more which proved a terrible strain after such a good holiday. Things were very quiet in camp but occasionally some excitement was raised in the Corporals' Mess of an evening with concert parties &amp; card tournaments. The week ends were generally spent in Salisbury dodging the Military police for more often than not the troops never took the trouble to apply for leave, thus getting a pass but would sooner run the risk of being caught about without leave. Some very good boxing tournaments were conducted in the camp &amp; it was here that Digger Evans the famous soldier boxer first became prominent winning every fight he had. I was granted my ten days furlough dating from the 17th September 1917 so prepared my self for the ordeal. On Sunday the 16th September I obtained leave into Salisbury where I spent the day then that night I gave my Salisbury pass to a mate to take back to camp for me for I was going to stay the night in Salisbury. I went to a Hotel near the station where I put up for the night so as to enable me to make a flying start on my furlough next day. After breakfast next morning I made my way to the railway station where I caught a fast train for London arriving at Waterloo Station about midday after four hours travelling. I spent the remainder of that day looking round the big city spending the evening at a theatre after which I turn in being well satisfied with the preliminary of my furlo. Next day the 18th I left London from Victoria Station at 1.55PM for Brighton arriving there after a very pleasant journey at 3PM where I was met by an old friend with whom I had arranged to stay with for a few days. I remained in Brighton for eight days &amp; during that time had a very enjoyable time. Brighton being one of England's greatest seaside resorts has many places of interest the place being well patronized by thousands each summer on holidays. The city itself is well laid out with fine big buildings especially along the sea front which mostly consist of Hotels, boarding houses &amp; private homes which are used by the wealthier class during the summer months. Along the foreshore is a very broard footpath with big lawns &amp; gardens these extending for some miles spotted here &amp; there with band stands. Further to the south near Hove the sea front is very pretty for it at this place where the wealthy class usually parade themselves on Sunday mornings. There are two big Piers which extend out into the sea for a couple of hundred yards both of these being very spacious for they accommodated a picture show &amp; several bands stands on each. At the end of each Pier arrangement had been made for swimming so on several occasion I availed myself of the opportunity</p>