<p class="page" id="a5993091">[Page 91]</p>
<p>off at dusk for the front line. At dusk accompanied by an officer &amp; three other Sergeants we set out for the front line which was a good march &amp; to make things more awkward the freeze was still continuing which made the roads &amp; tracks very slippery. On arriving at the front line our officer reported to the Company Commander of the 6th Battalion whose company was holding the front line &amp; the company who we were to relieve. We were soon given a dug out to put our equipment in then was shown the party of the front line our respective platoon would occupy the next night when the battalion came in. After a spell our party was given a suit of white canvas overalls each for we were to go out on patrol with the 6th Battalion party to have a look over no-mans land. These white canvas suits were used on account of the snow covered ground &amp; the cold which was very severe on this duty. When everyone was ready about nine men altogether we moved out into no mans land, had a look at our barb wire then the lay of the ground out in front. After wandering about in no mans land for about two hours without seeing any of the enemy we returned to our front line cold &amp; stiff through the adventure. When we had removed our canvas overalls a 6th Battalion officer came to our dug out with a rum issue which assisted a little to warm our frozen bodies. Next morning another sergeant &amp; myself decided to make our way back to the village of Wytschaete to find a place for a sleep after such an unpleasant night. We made our way back along the Communication trench which was camouflaged overhead the whole way also being well built. At the end of this communication trench was an Australian Comforts fund dug out where the troops could get a cup of hot cocoa of a night which was very nice during the cold weather. The two of us however soon made our way back to the village where we found an unoccupied pill box &amp; soon had a good fire going to try &amp; thaw ourselves after the previous night experiences. This pill box was on the side of the road along which our battalion would come that night so we were content to remain in the pill box all day during which time we enjoyed a good sleep. A little after dark the battalion started to pass us &amp; when my platoon arrived I took charge of it then guided them into the front line relieving a platoon of the 6th Battalion. The forward positions consisted of an outpost scheme with small connected posts forming the front line with supports just in rear then reserves which were situated a fair distance in rear of the support line positions. No movement whatever was allowed by day except the changing of sentries on post duty which was absolutely necessary for these sentries were to give warning of any enemy movements. The remainder of the men in the front line were compelled to keep in their dug outs under cover so as to prevent any observation by the Huns. During the night everyone was compelled to remain awake on duty in case of an attack &amp; the company had three posts of a night to every one occupied during the day. During the night of the 1st of January 1918 I commenced the new year well for I was detailed in charge of a barb wiring party in no mans land to strengthen our defences. This was a very stiff job for the ground was still frozen which made it very hard to drive stakes in to secure the wire on but however after a few hours hard work we returned to the front line being satisfied with what had been done. The next night the company was relieved then moved back to supports when my platoon was put into a circular strong points which was exceptionally well built being thoroughly camouflage overhead for the position was one of secret. The duties while in this position consisted of fatigue work of a night such as digging posts &amp; barb wiring in &amp; about the support position with nothing to do during the day time.</p>