<p class="page" id="a5993089">[Page 89]</p>
<p>Another corporal in the company was also granted so the both of us decided to spend the day together. Before leaving the company commander told us that we would have to proceed by train to Boulougne explaining where to go to catch a train &amp; also that a motor lorry would leave from the cathedral in the city that night to convey all troops on leave belonging to the first brigade back to their units. We soon made our way to Neurve Chatel about three miles away where we caught a train which took us right into Boulougne. The time spent on leave was very pleasant for there are many places of interest in the city also several picture shows one of which we went to but the few hours we had went far to quick. About ten oclock we made our way to the cathedral where we found the motor lorry without any trouble which was then full of men belonging to the 1st 2nd 3rd &amp; 4th Battalion. The lorry took us as far as the 1st Battalion billets when we found we had to walk the rest of the way  none of us knew how far to go or exactly in what direction. However after walk for  some considerable time we came to a big barn on the side of the road where my mate &amp; I decided to spent the night until daylight then to get our bearings. I was awake first next morning so roused my mate then proceeded on the journey to try &amp; find the battalion. However we had only gone a couple of hundred yards when we came to a finger post which indicated that Halinghen was about half a mile straight along the road which proved to us that we were on the right track the night before. On arriving at the billet reveille blew so all hands were soon on the move getting ready for breakfast &amp; I also learned that I had not been missed during the night. During the sojourn in this village the battalion settled down to training which consisted of four hours drill during the morning followed by one hours compulsory recreation during the afternoon. The Brigade took up football which resulted in a considerable number of inter company &amp; inter battalion matches being played which added great interest into our soldiering life. The boys all managed to get leave into Boulougne in their turn &amp; altogether everyone had a real good time for the consessions were many with very little drill. When battalion routine orders were published on the 30th of November I discovered &amp; was also informed that I had received a further promotion in my military career for I was made Lance Sergeant which meant carrying three strips on Corporal's pay. The next morning the 1st of December the battalion was taken to Etaples in motor lorries for a hot bath &amp; change of under clothing which was very much needed. The day was very cold but still the ride there &amp; back was very enjoyable &amp; whilst waiting for the return journey at Etaples all of our sergeants were given a meal &amp; entertained by New Zealand Sergeants in their mess, this action being much appreciated for it showed the true spirit which existed between the two. our good times at Halinghen came to an end on the 14th of December for on that day we packed up then started the march back to the front line going as far as the village of Zoetux the first day. Next morning we were on the move once more &amp; after a very long march the boys were put into billets at Ledinghem for the night. After breakfast next morning the battalion set off on the march which terminated at the old mill previously described at Assinghem which was still used for the billeting of troops. By this time the weather was very cold for winter was well on the way &amp; as the old mill had all brick or concrete floors it made things very uncomfortable for us. Our here this time was exceptionally short for reveille was at 3AM next morning the 17th when after a scanty meal the battalion set off on the march it still being dark as pitch. This morning it was very cold for it had snowed heavily</p>