<p class="page" id="a5993102">[Page 102]</p>
<p>The motor lorries took the battalion to Strazelle where we were hurriedly fallen in then set off on the march passing through the village to an old farm yard where each man was instructed to pick up a pick or a shovel. Whilst passing over two cross roads prior to picking up the tools three (3) enemy shells fell inflicting about a dozen casualties in the company also shaking the remainder of the boys up considerably for it was quite unexpected. When we arrived at the Western outskirts of the village of Veaux Berquin the company was taken into fields on the right &amp; left of the road along which we were marching my platoon being sent to the right. It was not long before the front line position was decided on every one being instructed to dig in as soon as possible for at that time we had no definite idea how far away the Huns were or if any British troops were out ahead of us. Before daylight the troops had succeeded in getting well down for the digging had been easy also learning that Two Imperial Divisions including a Brigade of Guards were out in front of us but they were retiring on our position. During the early part of the next morning the 11th of April the foremost stragglers of the Imperial troops began to fall back on our position but it was not until after mid-day that they retired in big numbers. These troops were all taken in hand by us according to orders being utilised in consolidating our position for we all realized by now that we were to be the stopping block of the big advance &amp; every man was quite ready and willing to do his best &amp; die fighting if necessary. That night after dark the Imperial men were taken back behind the line leaving us to our task for we never knew the moment when the Huns would reach our position &amp; from what we could learn realized that the enemy was in force which meant that a super-human effort would be necessary for our unit was considerably under strength. About midnight our battalion transport arrived with a good hot meal also a large supply of bombs &amp; rifle ammunition which was soon distributed along the platoon front ready for action. The next morning things became busy for it was learned that the Huns were rapidly approaching our position, more ammunition was brought up &amp; orders issued to the effect that the position was to be held at all costs. Our first shots were fired about midday the Huns putting in their first appearance in the village of Veaux Berquin for they came marching along the main street in column of route four abreast. When this was seen to be the main point of the advance I received orders to take one of my Lewis Guns out on to the road to assist another gun there from Company Headquarters. We allowed the Huns to come right along through the village nearly to the last house when our two guns opened out with terrible deadly results for the enemy tried to get into the houses but luckily the inhabitants had locked their front doors before leaving &amp; the Huns could be seen running backwards &amp; forwards trying to escape our fire but there was very few who escaped being killed or wounded. During this time the other parts of the front line were having their share of the fun, the Huns never getting any closer than a hundred yards in the first rush. our Lewis Guns played a great part doing excellent work everywhere, the boys also being able to put their rifles to good use too for they had been previously looked upon as an encumbrance &amp; only something extra to carry. After the first rush of the enemy things quietened down but still he was moving about all day long providing some very good shooting for our troops who enjoyed themselves to the full for it was really the first time during our sojourn in France that the boys were able to hit back. The Enemy had recieved such a sudden set back that he never had the time to find out our exact position for during the afternoon a Hun Limber drawn by a big mule</p>