<p class="page" id="a5993097">[Page 97]</p>
<p>On alighting from the train we were met by Imperial Military Police who took us by tram to La Pepiniere Military Barracks to have our passes stamped. After having our passes stamped we were informed to report back at 9 AM the next morning when we would receive our leave pay. This day 3rd March being my "Twenty First Birthday" we set out to celebrate the occasion to the full when finished at the barracks. It was very dark when we set out but made our way straight to the Florida Hotel to book our beds for the night. This being carried out we wandered about the city which was poorly lighted up for all the lamps were shaded a dark blue colour so as to keep the place as concealed as possible owing to the Huns activities in the air. it was with great difficulty that we found our way about until we decided to spend the evening in a picture show then make up for lost time on the morrow. The next few days were spent in as much sight seeing as the hours of daylight would permit for the Masonery and Architectural works were absolutely magnificent &amp; great to look upon. I visited a great number of places of note including the Notre Dame Cathedral which the Huns so savagely shelled at a later date, also the Hotel-de-Invalids the burial place of the Great Napoleon, this same building at that time being used as the French War Museum. our evenings were spent at theatres for there were plenty of them being so different to our own for at each interval during the performances the audience would proceed to the big prommenades where jazz bands were playing which kept the enjoyment at fever heat the whole time. The whole city seemed to me to be a wonderful world of its own for even though the war was on everything moved along merrily without a single idle moment. The Railways &amp; Underground Tube Systems are very extensive works enabling the tourist to get about the city with very little difficulty. The river Siene flows through the heart of the city which is crossed by numerous bridges &amp; along its banks have been made huge lawns &amp; gardens which give the place a very picturesque appearance. All the sights that were seen &amp; places visited are far too numerous to mention for every thing compared favourably with the others &amp; I consider it was the finest time I have had outside of Aussie. On the morning of the 8th I had occasion to visit the Barracks to replenish my funds but on arriving at the pay office I received a sever shock for I was handed a telegram to return to the battalion at one as I was required as a witness on a Court Martial case. After re-reading the telegram several times I came back to earth then started to heap curses upon the heads of the military authorities responsible for recalling  me for it meant forfeiting  three good days leave but of course having been caught I had nothing else to do but to return to the Unit. it was then about 9 AM &amp; I was instructed to report to the Army provost Martial straight away who would arrange for my return. The A.P.M. told me to catch the 2PM train from the "Gare-de-Norde" station also that he would wire to my battalion that I was returning at once. I had a few hours before departing so wandered about but the more I saw of the city the harder I found it would be to leave such a place for I had had such a good time. 2 PM that day saw me seated in the train which was soon on its way from Paris. That night when we pulled into Boulougne the troops on board we taken to a big Military billet for the night. Early next morning I went with others to the station &amp; there caught a train which took us to Calais.</p>