<p class="page" id="a5993114">[Page 114]</p>
<p><u>England again</u><br/>The long looked for order to proceed to England came during the morning of the 16th September 1918 when I was instructed to pack up all my gear then stand bye ready to move. The move took place at 2 P.M. that afternoon when those who were to go to England (about one Hundred all told) were put into motor lorries which took us down onto a wharf in Le Havre. We had to wait some considerable time on the wharf before embarking &amp; to our surprise Seven Hundred (700) German Prisoners of War were put aboard before our troops were even given the hint of going on. These Huns (so we were told) were taken over on the same ships as British Troops as a preventive of being torpedoed by any enemy submarines which may manage to get into the Channel, this being made public news so as to warn the Huns against the likely hood of drowning hundreds of their own men, at the same time this procedure having a possibility of a safe guard for our troops in transport. It was 7 A.M. before we embarked on the S.S. "Mona's Queen" then as soon as accommodation had been allotted sentries from our boys were detailed to guard the stair &amp; gangways during the trip across the Channel. This was done so as to assist the "Prisoners Escort", so that in the event of the ship being Torpedoed the Huns could be controlled so as to enable our soldiers to leave the ship before the Prisoners of War. About 11 P.M. the ship untied then made its way out into the Channel, but owing to no sleeping accommodation being available the troops had to lie about in their cloths on the deck which was done without a murmur for all knew the trip would only take a few hours to complete. After an all night voyage the ship pulled into Southampton about 8 AM, the troops disembarking a half an hour later when we had to march about a mile to the Railway station. On arriving at the Station it was found that there was no train for three hours, so the troops were given leave for that time, so several of us went to a Tea Room where we had a real good breakfast. We spent the remainder of the time in having a look round the city for it was great to feel the sod of Old England under foot once more also knowing that the hardships of War were done with for awhile. Everyone was back at the station in time to catch the mid-day train and after four hours travel in a very comfortable train our party received orders to alight when we arrived at Weymouth. On going outside this station we found Motor Ambulances waiting to take us to Westham Camp Weymouth, where we were all soon fixed up for the night. The next morning I was sent before a Doctor being classified C11 &amp; the same again on the following day when I was then transferred to No 4 Company. I was finally boarded before two Doctors on the 21st Of September which I was marked B2A which meant six months home service in England, to be reboarded every three months. On the 24th of September I was transferred to No 2 Company where I remained for twenty four hours then being moved into No 1 Company. My stay in this company only lasted two days for then I was transferred to Orderly Room Sergeant of Staff Company in a nice quiet job. This camp was very comfortable for it was only for Invalids awaiting Transport back to Aussie or else regaining strength of being a casualty in Hospital. My duties here were far from being strenuous &amp; the Sergeants Mess would pass inspection so I had very few complaints to make. leave was granted into Weymouth every afternoon between 4 &amp; 11 P.M. of a week day then from 1 to 11 P.M. every Saturday and Sunday. Weymouth is a very nice place right on the sea front having a fine asphalt prommonade right along the sea front boarded by big lawns &amp; gardens.</p>