<p class="page" id="a5993075">[Page 75]</p>
<p>On receiving instructions are small party set off on the march going as far as Divisional Headquarters just in rear of Bapaume where we were immediately given a pay then told to stand bye. While waiting N.C.O's arrived from all the battalions in the division &amp; when every battalion was represented the party was fallen in, there being about fifty N.C.O's, for an inspection by the Divisional Commander who thanked us for past services also wishing us a good holiday. He also emphasized the training of the recruits in England who were to be the men for the future upholding of our respective battalions Good names won on the field. After the inspection the party was marched to the rear of headquarters where we were put into huts for the night near the village of Bancourt. About midnight our slumber was disturbed by huge detonations caused by exploding bombs dropped by the enemy aircraft. This caused a considerable amount of excitement for some of the bombs fell uncomfortably close which made the most of us wonder if out trip to England was to be spoiled right on the eve of our departure. However things soon settled down again so the troops indulged in a few more winks until daylight. Every one was up bright &amp; early next morning &amp; after breakfast we received instructions to make our way independently to the Reinforcement camp at Albert. Several of us set off together but after walking a short distance managed to catch a motor lorry which took us right into the camp at Albert. During the way in we passed through the old village of Pozieres which at that time was used to accommodate troops in huts &amp; dug outs for the front line area. On arriving at the camp in Albert we were allotted to huts &amp; on being fixed up several of us wandered into the town where we managed to get a hot bath &amp; clean change of underclothing. After having a look round we spent a couple of hours in a picture show which had been established in the old town for the troops benefit. After spending a very pleasant evening we made our way back to the camp to enjoy another nights good rest. Next morning all gear was packed up early then the party proceeded to the Railway Station where after waiting a few hours we got aboard a train consisting of cattle trucks. When the train pulled into Amiens Station orders were received for our party to get out which we did &amp; was then told that we would have to wait for two hours before proceeding further. We did not mind this in the least for after succeeding in dodging the military police at the station several of us made our way into the city where we spent two very enjoyable hours. Everyone was present on the station at 6PM &amp; we left Amiens at 6.15PM by passenger train which was far more comfortable than the previous part of the journey in cattle truck. The journey from Amiens until dark was very pleasant for the scenery was beautiful on account of the fields &amp; hedges which were beginning to shows their new spring foliages. After five hours ride the train steamed into Boulougne where we disentrained &amp; fell into fours on the station the party then being taken to big billets a short distance away. As soon as everyone was fixed up in the billets a good hot meal was issued to all after which the boys indulged in a talk for a while the main topic being "the trip to England". It was not long however before I lay down for a comfortable sleep for a good bed was available &amp; as I lay there before dosing I could not help thinking of the wonderful tomorrow &amp; how lovely it would be if I could only let my people know way back in Aussie that I was well away from the horrors of war even if it only to be for a short period. It was during these meanders that I eventually fell of to sleep quite satisfied with the present situation. Everyone was astire in the billet at daybreak &amp; to my surprise on awakening I found the place was inhabited by numbers of Imperial men, who I learned from talking with them were proceeding</p>