<p class="page" id="a5993108">[Page 108]</p>
<p>at a house on the side of the road. After the meal we set out again on the walk but after walking for about half an hour managed to catch a lorry which soon landed us at the camp. Not very far away from the school was a big Refugees Camp which accommodated a great number of the people who had been forced to evacuate their homes owing to the Huns offensive. These people were living under such conditions for the nights were very cold. During the remaining nights, I visited other villages in the district, some of which I had been in before, having some real good times, also being sorry to see the time at school coming to an end. The day arrived for our examination which proved to be very easy &amp; I managed to get a very good pass, which was satisfying for it meant that I could go back to the unit &amp; show that the school had done me some good. The school broke up on the 8th of June, the Aussie leaving by motor lorries which took us into St. Omer where they pulled up for a couple of hours leave, where we had a good time while our short stay lasted. Everyone returned to the lorries as ordered, then we set off for the Battalion who was then at Bourre making its way towards the front line again. On reporting to the company commander he instructed me to get my gear into battle order ready for the front line also take my pack to the Quartermaster as they were not being taken into the line with us. The following morning the battalion moved forward to a  newly dug reserve trench in front of Priddelles, where we were told we would remain for some time. Everyone had to set to work &amp; make themselves dug outs here for there were none in the trench but before very long every man in my platoon was comfortably situated. Our duties whilst here consisted of digging more trenches in supports of a night also destroying wheat crops, which had been sewn before the Huns had pushed, &amp; by this time we about four feet high. It seemed a sin to see acre after acre of great bearing crops cut down, letting it go to waste for it could not be taken away, but it had to be levelled as it would prove a hindrance to our defences should the enemy attack for it concealed observation. more guns were hurriedly pulled up into the forward positions for it was anticipated the Huns was going to make a big attack. The idea kept growing in strength until the night of the 16th when all hands were compelled to "stand to" all night. After dusk that night Troops were rushed up into the Reserve Trenches, special instructions issued until the excitement grew intense but daylight saw us still under the same old conditions with no signs of an attack from Fritz. During the early evening of the 17th our Battalion was sent forward, relieving the 4th Battalion in the front line about a  mile South West of the village of Merris. The next couple of days were spent very quietly, but at night, Patrol parties were sent out to keep command of no-mans land for at this time the Hun was extremely nervous, for at the slightest sound or movement of a night he would fire up flares by the dozens also use his machine guns like mad. our front line was situated among tall crops, on the southern slope of a ridge, with Fritz holding the top of the ridge about one hundred yards away. During the night of the 19th I received orders to the affect that No 1 &amp; No 2 Platoons of our Company were to make a daylight attack at 9 A.M. next morning on the Huns Post in front of those platoons. The idea of this attack was to gain the top of the Ridge in front thus blocking a considerable amount of the enemy's observation for by him holding the ridge it enable him to see about Two Miles behind our front line.</p>