18th AprilThe 12th Brigade inspected by General Cox our Divisional Commander Mjr-General Godley, Our Brigade complimented by the General on its smart appearance "some swank to be sure"
25th April Anzac day. Holiday granted to all Troops in the vicinity of the Canal. There was a great gathering on the Canal and the Sports were a great success. Some of the boys made boats out of Canvas other material that was lying about some very humorous sceanes were witnessed. We had distinguished persons as spectators such as his Royal Nibs the Prince of Wales so on. He holds the rank of Capt and is attached to General Murrays staff. All the boys spent a great day. To top it up, every man received a bottle of Lemonade to wash the desert sand out of his neck, needless to say it hardly wet were it went.
26th We received news of Turkish raid in "Kantara" a town a few miles from here in a Northerly direction. It appears the Turks caught the British napping and after a short scrap the Turks captured over 200 Soldiers about 300 Camels 150 Horses some loss to us. Almost sure to be an enquiry held the rumour flying around is to the effect that they had no Guards or Sentries posted (Just like the British to always underestimate their enemies.) Also received news of an action near the "Wells" on our east front.
1st May.Received news of General Towshend,s surrender of Kut-el-Amara after defending that town for over 5 months, which certainly was a great work, owing to climatic conditions, serious sickness that broke out among his Garrison which by the time of his surrender must have been reduced to small numbers. On 2 occasions attempts were made to relievehim were beaten back by the Turks.
2nd D. Coy on Out Post Duty to night.
3rd Eddie May's Birthday
5th The whole of the 12th Brigade marched out and occupied our first line Trenches as Aeroplane came in reported small Turkish Force in vicinity. Our Battn the 45th are at Post K.5.D. about 9 miles east of Suez Canal. The march out from railhead was pretty heavy to so much drift sand, the heat of the day. Of course as is usual there was a great shortage of water.
7th Stand to arms at 3A.M this morning, Building barbed wire entanglements emptying sand out of the trenches. The weather to day has been very warm. And water scarce. Done a little sketching of various hills ridges in front of redoubts for Capt Perry. Also marking out ranges for rifle fire
13th May Another hot day. Turks reported to be about 12 miles from our Position, they are a long time making up their minds attacking us, (looks as if one side couldnt the other wouldnt) Still working on the entanglements so on. Our aeroplane was out over enemy positions to day.