11th NovemberIn the English Channel sea much calmer Came in sight of English Coast (Isle of Wight) about 8 AM. Arrived at Southhampton about 3P.M. There were 8 other Hospital Ships in port, including the big Cunard Liner "Mauretania" which brought over 3,000 sick wounded from the Dardanelles. Ambulance trains very busy carrying patients off to Hospitals in various parts of England. We remain aboard ship until tomorrow. The weather here is bitterly cold.
(12) Still raining. The Imperial troops were entrained at 11 o,clock this morning taken off to Hospitals. Australians left about 12.30 were taken to various Hospitals in Oxford. Many of us were taken to the Town Hall which has been turned into a Hospital, everything is spick span there is plenty of wholesome food careful attention. We feels the cold very much in these regions. (The country looked very picturesque coming up from Southhampton.)
(13) Still raining awfully cold. Could not get to sleep last night missed the rocking of the ship no doubt. All men who are able to walk about are allowed out from 1P.M to 5P.M. We were taken over some Historical places by a Gentleman of Oxford this afternoon. We were taken over Oxford College the Tom Tower several other old time places which were very interesting. Some Ladies of the City gave us a concert here to night.
(14) Heavy frost this morning bitterly cold. Went for a stroll this afternoon through Oxford a very pretty little place with the River Thames running through the city, also numerous Canals, its old fashioned Buildings. On the outskirts of the Town there are beautiful green fields gardens, fine cattle etc. Sp sweet to gaze upon after dry old Turkey.
(15) Heavy frost this morning. A party of us out again this afternoon. Saw a Battalion of Kitcheners New Army marching through the town this afternoon they looked fine. There are large numbers of men flocking to the Colours now, as the Conscription Bill comes into force at the end of the month.
(16) Cold again this morning, fairly heavy fall of snow last night. A party of N.S.W Soldiers 8 of us invited out to afternoon tea by one of the Fish-heads of the Town Mr Montague Burrows at his residence, We spent a ripping time, we had a great welcome. After tea we were shown over the large Drawing Room which has a large collection of curios from all parts of the world. (Mrs Burrows is a cousin of Admiral Jellicoe's).
(17) Very cold night. Went for a tour again this evening. The majority of men one meets are in khaki. Wherever you go you can hear orders being shouted out. the Tramp Tramp of feet. They evidently mean to give the Sausage Eaters a gay time.
(18) Turned out very nice day. A Lady Mrs Dixon took a party of 4 of us through some of the Colleges this afternoon, Also the old church were the Martyr,s interned the spot in Broad St were they were burnt at the Stake, the spot is marked, they have a beautiful Tower erected to their memory. Afterwards we were taken to a bun fight put up a good go.
(19) Raining all night. Cold day. Visited the City markets this afternoon. Also took a stroll along the "Osney Canal" to see the lock gates was told that there are 27 Colleges in Oxford.\
(20) As per usual very cold. Invited to Tea at Professor Butlers home were treated like royalty. These people take a great interest in Australian Soldiers doings at the front. A musical party gave us another splendid concert to night.