(10) Had a trip to "Fleur-Baix" this morning on Court-Martial case. My word what an amount of destruction has been done here by the German Artillery, Churches and other buildings have been battered into shapeless masses. But strange to say The "Crucifix of which every town is possesed of one or more has escaped injury. There had been some hard street fighting here in the early days of the war , We left on return journey about 2p.m and while going along communication trench the German Artillery were doing a little shooting and some fragments came our way, Cpl Hansen was struck with a piece of shell but as we all wear Steel Helmets, it minimises the damage. Our O.C. received note from Brig-General Glasfaurd in reference to work done on Patrol the previous night by Lieut Davis and myself. Our Artillery shell enemy trenches again this afternoon. 2 of our aeroplanes flew over enemy trenches about 11 o,clock to night and dropped Bombs.
(11) Stand to arms at 2.30 this morning. . Things fairly quiet. 1 man of A. Company killed early this morning, 1 of my coy received a slight wound while sniping. Enemy artillery shelled our trenches this afternoon doing some damage, but we had no casualties. We were relieved by the 53rd Bn about midnight and marched though "Fleur-Baix" and "Bac-St Maur" to "Sailly" and reached there about 5.30A.M. and occupied our old billets.
(12) Left Sailly for "Meterean" 5.30P.M and after a pretty rough march arrived about 9.30P.M.
(13) A day of rest, and the boys need it. Some talk about marching off again to night.
(14) Left "Meterean" for "Bailleul" west, and entrained for destination unknown at 2 o,clock this morning. Arrived at place called "Doullens" about 7 A.M. after a spell we set out on a 15 mile march to "Berteaucourt" near "Amiens". A great many men fell out on the march with sore feet and so on. We were billeted in Barns round about the Township.
(15) A great many men attended sick parade this morning (after yesterdays march. We rested for the remainder of the day.
(16) We heard this morning about the big Advance made by the British on the "Lys-Somme". Out for a route march this afternoon. Haveing plenty of wet weather, and the thatched roofs of the Barns dont keep the moisture out much. We get more than a fair share of rain here, while in Egypt we got none.
Yours Truly "Charlie Sausage"