feet into the air buy the explosion got a slight wound on right arm also sundry cuts elsewhere and clothing torn a great deal. I was knocked quite deaf. When I could gather my wits, it appeared that the Battle had finished to me as I could hear nothing. When I found myself bleeding I made to the dressing Station, it was getting light and I saw many of the boys that had come into the firing line the night before lying dead. There were a large number both Germans who had been captured our own boys waiting to be fixed up, there were some awful wounds. I was very lucky indeed to get off so light. The sights were enough to make your heart bleed. Some of our boys would be helping German wounded to the rear, vice versa. We had our wounds dressed again about an hour later in an old ruined Church which had been turned into a dressing station. Then we were sent on by Motor Ambulance to "Contay" were we remained for the night.
(7) We were taken on the Red Cross train about 9 o,clock this morning and taken to "Boulogne" Stationary Hospital were we are being attended to. I am still on the deaf side.
(10) Still at anchor in hospital. More sick and wounded arrive here from the firing line. We are having fine weather and being by the sea coast makes a bloke very cheerful, especially where there are no shells screaming overhead.
(13) Left "Boulogne" in Belgian Hospital Ship S.S. Jan Breydel about 10 oclock this morning and arrived at Dover about 12 noon, after a smart run of 2 hours. After the usual wait in the docks we were taken by Ambulance trains through "London" to "Manchester" arriving there about midnight, There were a great many people about the Station and as the Cars carrying the Wounded troops came along they were greeted with cheers. We were taken about 5 miles in the cars to "Stockport" No 2 Western Gen Hospital Vernon Park. After a good hot water bath which was very nice, and having had my scratches attended to, I tumbled into a nice soft bed and snored a treat so on.
Tell Jenna I still have her little Red shoe. I always carry it in my pocket along with little prayer book. It has traveled some, been to Egypt, Turkey, Gibraltar, England Scotland, back to Egypt, then France and now England again.
I will probably send it home from here "Diddie" XXXX++
From The "Linesman tell" Jenna 1916