June until 22nd Same routine, working dodging bullets etc
(23) Several shells burst among our dugouts this afternoon wounding 5 of our boys. The Turks also shelled the beach heavily killing wounding many. One of our Battleships tried hard to silence Turkish Battery but did not appear to have made much impression as they continued. Our Howitzer guns then took a hand and must have got a few shots in as they got a lot quieter towards evening. was promoted to full Sergeant to day, dating from June 11th.
24 25 Turks artillery doing great damage on the beach both to men stores, men have received warning not to go bathing untill the evening, but the days are so hot they will risk anything to get a dip A dust up took place on "Quinns Post" last night between the L. Horse Turks, pretty lively while it lasted.
26 27Weather getting very hot. Turned out at 3 A.M. this morning marched out on our left front, while carrying out this job another attack was made on "Quinns Post" by the Turks the bullets came singing through the air near our Position, of course we kept our nobs down. On our way back to bivouac a Shrapnell burst about 15 yards overhead but slightly in front of us luckily no one was hit. Our casualties on Quinns Post were 103. Several shells burst over our dug outs this evening several of the boys who were preparing their evening meal were hit.
28 2913th Bn Inlying Picquet to day. Heavy fighting going on at Cape Helles. Things fairly quiet on our front. One of our aeroplanes passed over Turkish lines this afternoon was fired at by the enemy but escaped uninjured. More casualties among our lads on the beach to day. Heavy fireing all along our line this evening, Turks took advantage of the storm that was blowing tried to rush our trenches, but they lost heavily had to retire.
(30) At daylight this morning it was seen how great the losses of the Turks were as the bodies were pretty thick all over the ground in front of "Walkers Ridge, some of them got very close to our trenches, others jumped in only to have their heads battered in. We also took some prisoners. A Thunderstorm came up tonight things were anyhow, The Turks made another mad rush but were repulsed, our casualties were slight.
More to follow Mother XHope they don't weary you, it is just something to pass the time away. Toot-Toot.