(26) Was reported to us from Torpedo Boat that a Turkish Destroyer was cruising around that she had attacked the Transport H.M.T Manitou. And in the scramble 62 of the Troops had been drowned, a large number having been picked up by our destroyer.
(27) Fine day. We have not sighted a steamer all day. Guess our ship is steering another course to dodge enemy destroyers. Pretty hard if we were attacked with all these mangled aboard. We have only 3 doctors on board they work hard day night to relieve the lads' suffering.
(28) Several buried this morning. We arrived at Alexandria about 4P.M. started straight way to get wounded ashore. There were a strong detachment of the R.A.M.C. men to carry them ashore place them in the train for Heliopolis. 2 more Troopships came in tonight with wounded.
(29) Several Hospital ships arrive early this morning with more of the wounded, I met Jock Duncan coming off the Soudan on a stretcher, he had a bad wound in the thigh, he told me that many of my old pals had been hit.
(30) Troopships continue to blow in, also Hospital ships with our wounded. There are also a great many troops on the move for the Dardanelles. Things fairly hum over Alexander at present, what with the boys arriveing motor Ambulances other vehicles flying about it presents a very busy appearance.
May 1st Our Ship took aboard 1,600 Australian Troops this morning. I met lots of chaps I knew of course had to give them a description of what took place on the 25th April they were all very interested listeners. We left here about 10P.M. to night for Lemnos.
(2) We are having a splendid trip so far. There is not too much room for moving about with such a crowd aboard, the ship is a vessel of about 4,000 tons. Met Sgt McKillop aboard who was in old D. Coy with me at Liverpool, also many others I knew very well. Another very pretty sunset this evening, worth any amount of money to see.
(3) Edie Mays Birthday 7 years God bless her. Another beautiful day, lads all anxious to get to their destination. All troops went through boat drill manned ship for practice in case of an attack from enemy Submarines. There are supposed to be two Turkish Destroyers about having escaped from Smyrna during the bombardment of that place.
(4) Arrived at Lemnos early this morning. Saturnia arrived just after us with another crowd of Australians aboard. We hear our lads are holding on at "Anzac" although suffering heavy losses. The lads getting full up of being cooped up on board ship. Major Newland his A.M.C. went off here to the Base Hospital.
(5) Still lying at anchor. Gets properley on ones nerves remaining inactive. Naval launch came alongside this evening with message to O.C. guess there is something doing. Heard later we were to leave early in the morning for the Dardanelles. News received with much cheering by the boys. All into bunk early tonight, as one never knows what tomorrow might bring forth.
More to follow - Dear X