3 June (Kings Birthday) The same old bustle on board for the first couple of days, The 1st 2ng Class W.Os dine in the Officers Mess we get the very best of what is going, some class sure. We passed by several steam vessels this afternoon, haveingleft Alexandria at 11 oclock this morning. Beautiful weather.
4 Fine weather at sea. There are 6 Troopships in our convoy escorted by 2 Torpedo-Boat-Destroyers. The Vessels steer some erratic courses owing to Submarines being reported in the vicinity. There is very little work done aboard by the Troops, ship is too crowded, guess there would be some scramble if anything serious did occur, as we have not been alloted to boats as yet.
5 We received news from one of our escorts this morning that there had been a Naval action in the North Sea, and we are waiting anxiously for details.
6 Heard more about the great sea fight by the way it reads we have suffered rather heavily, both in Ships men, guess its about time our people woke up didnt underestimate our enemy so much. We passed by the Island of "Pantalidia" about 4 this afternoon. Vessel changed course through the night, we are now steaming Nor-West. Our escort left us at dusk to pick up a boat with survivors from a vessel that had been Torpedoed in the vicinity. 7 Sea as smooth as a sheet of glass. Passed quite close to the Island of "Sardinia" about 8 oclock this morning, looked very pretty with its farms wooded lands. About 2 oclock this afternoon our boat nearly ran into a fair sized whale which was on the surface spouting. We have passed many vessels to day both sail steam.
8 All hands on the move early this morning getting lifebelts hammocks stowed away, also getting equipment put together ready for disembarking. Sighted coast of "France" about 6 A.M. looked very pleasing to the eye after the sands of Egypt. Arrived at "Marseilles" about 9.30A.M anchored in the Bay. The Towns looks very pretty from the Bay with its "Chateaus" red tiled houses tall church spires. There are a large number of vessels in port flying the flags of many nations. Our ship went into dock at midday and started to disembark troops at 6P.M. We received a warm reception from the French folk. The 45th Bn went ashore at 10P.M.
9 We entrained about 2A.M. this morning, after a scramble for room, the transport arrangements were rotten, the R.T.O staff dont appear to know their job. However we got away in the end. And what a beautiful sight after daybreak. Beautiful green fields trees flower gardens looking their sweetest the birds seemed to be having a day out, judging by the whistling. It is a splendid country, and all the boys appreciated it after their sojurn in the dry desert, We had rations issued to us at a station called "Avigden". We were cheered by the People as we steamed through the small stations. We stopped at "Lyons" a very large city for about an hour (Tea). One can see on all sides how seriously the French nation is takeing this great war At all the stations there are numbers of women employed as engine cleaners doing other railway work, thus enabling the menfolk to join the colours. There were a batch of about 300 German prisoners of war here just brought in from the front. They looked a pretty healthy lot. French folk very bitter towards them.