[February 1918
Feb 5th 1918. 45th Bn moved out from "La-Clytte" about 3.30P.M. this afternoon and entrained at Railway siding for "Spoil Bank" arriveing a couple of hours later. Our Coy then moved up into supports, passing the famous "Hill 60" or rather what remains of it, It is shell torn and pitted with huge mine craters. There has been some very sever fighting around these parts in the past, as the large number of little wooden crosses will testify. Our Coy releived D/Coy of the 214th Bn under Capt Jacka V.C. M.C., the last time we releived this same people were ding-dong times at "Battle of Polygon Wood". Had not been in half an hour when one of our Cpls was smacked in the shoulder by bullet. Fritz done a smart piece of work just after dark by creeping up and capturing a Cpl 6 men belonging to A.Coy of our Bn. 6th Enemy Artillery indulge in a little shelling early this morning. Enemy guns cut loose again about 19.15A.M. sending over about 20 gas shells causing a great scramble in support lines, amusing to see the boys ducking about with their box-respirators on. We had about 15 gassed, several bad cases, one of the lads dying through the effects. The remainder were led to the rear, blinded for the time being. A great number lost their speech for several days.
7th Rain fell this morning adding a little more misery to the boys. Everything pretty quiet during the day. A patrol from our Coy struck trouble in "Belgian Wood" about 9 o,clock to night Lt Stevens killed 2 of our boys wounded.
8th Fritz pretty busy this morning shelling a few "Pill-Boxes which are all occupied by our people. I made a tour of A. Coys post,s in "Belgian Wood" to night, some mud to wade through, but quite used to it by now. We are to releive these people to morrow night.
9th Everything quiet this morning. Enemy guns again lively this afternoon, a couple of our lads injured. Our Coy releived A. Coy at "Belgian Wood about 7 o,clock, the country around these parts is in an awfull mess Shell holes, mud etc