10 June Still buzzing along through fine country. The French Red Cross folk at several Stations gave the boys hot Tea and Coffee which is very acceptable. At the big Stations one sees many French Troops either going to or returning from the Trenches. One also sees many maimed Soldiers about. We passed through some fine fruit growing country this morning. Saw some very large strawberries, best I have ever seen.
11 We pulled up at a Station about 8a.m made a start on some biscuit beef, but when half way through the whistle sounded for all to get aboard what a scramble took place, very funny. We passed through "Boulounge" about 10 oclock this morning. There was a large detail Camp there, also many of our Australian Troops from the 2nd Division. We arrived at our destination "Bailleul" about 3 miles from the Belgian border about 3P.M. and marched out about 2 miles from the Town were billeted in Farm houses and so on, on the Noot-Boon road near "Meterean". This place at the early stages of the War was in the hands of the Germans, who were driven out by the "Gordons" and Canadians. There are several anti-aircraft guns mounted in the hills for use against hostile aeroplanes. We can hear the roar of the big guns at the front quite distinct. Our Coy are billeted in 3 Farms-houses which are within 200 yards of each other. 2 Platoons in one, 1 in another and in stowed away in a loft, the boys feel the cold at present. There are always one or more aeroplanes up observing every day. Their is a large "Hangar" near the Town.
12 It rained very heavy all night, and we had mud everywhere, quite a novelty after so much sand. Col Herring had the Officers N.C.O,s together this afternoon to give them a few hints on the wily ways of the Hun. Went into the village of Meterean this evening, one can see traces on all side of the knocking about it received during the fighting that took place in the streets between the British the Germans. One church has a very high steeple the Germans had 2 machine guns in the tower during the time they were in possesion of the Town did great execution with them. Some buildings have been destroyed by big gun fire bullet marks are to be seen everywhere. One of our Regts the "Warwicks" lost heavily just outside the Town. The graves are very thick. There are also many Germans buried near the Township. Guess it must have been willing.
13. The 45th 48th Bn attended a memorial service this morning for Earl Kitchener, The service was conducted by Rev Capt Ingamel. We are still getting our share of rain. A heavy Bombardment started about 6P.M out towards "La Bassee" we could see the big shells bursting quite plain.
14 Rifle inspection every morning in the Barns lectures while it rains. Col Herring inspected the Coy Billets this morning. We had our Steel Helmets issued to us this afternoon, guess we must look like "Cromwells Ironsides" of ye olden times. We get plenty of food so on, but firewood appears to be very short, of course their must be an awful lot of Troops to provide for. Even the French folk store up all manner of stuffs for firewood, the principal item being old hop-vines there are many hop-fields around these parts also splendid wheat paddocks, art present looking their best.