Sept 1Spent a very cold night in the trenches. We are bivouaced near the Worcester Regt, we are to releive them, they have lost very heavily since August 6th. About 3P.M we were on the move again scrambling through bushes climbing hills to occupy our new position known as "Durrants Post" near "Hill 971". We anchor at last after a weary march as the majority of the lads are done to a turn. We got straight to work to make our position stronger as the defences were very weak when we went into them. It is evidently a dangerous spot this judging by the number of graves about. The part of the Defences allotted to the 15th are quite close to "Flat-Top".
(2) Spent the night in trenches nothing sensational took place. About 8 o,clock this morning a ding-dong scrap takes place over at our old position at "Herring Post" now occupied by the Essex Regt. We got a good view of the fight as we are a fair height above sea level. Turk artillery put many shells among them. They also bombard Suvla Bay Camp this afternoon. Major Herring called for volunteers for Patrol work for to night Privates Roscoe, Young, Ryan myself were sent out just after dusk made our way cautiously towards Turkish trenches, often stumbling over the dead body of a Turkish or English Soldier who had fallen a few days back in the Big Battle, We reached the bottom of the "Dere" without being spotted after remaining there for a time we could hear a babble of voices coming our way we counted 9 Turks who passed within 6 yards of our "Possey" but we had orders not to fire a shot unless attacked, so after finding out one or two items we returned to our own lines about midnight made my report to C.O who seemed quite satisfied with our investigations.
(3) Things fairly quiet all night. Turks indulge in a little artillery fire this morning, damage insignificant. City of London Regt take up position on our left. Our Cruisers in Suvla bay send a few shells into Turkish position this afternoon for old times sake. Pte Young myself out on Patrol work again to night, returning to our lines about midnight. Spring a surprise on some Tommies who had been attached to our Battln by getting into firing line without being challenged. The scene that followed was very funny, although risky. Things pretty lively on "Walkers Ridge" tonight.
(4) Firing continued all night on our right. Turk Artillery try hard for Indian Mountain battery this morning, but their shooting was very eratic. The "Monitors drop a few "pills" into enemy trenches this afternoon sending up clouds of earth stones. A party of 20 from 3 Coy went for a dip this evening a great treat. Things get a bit lively towards midnight.
(5) (Sabbath) Everything very quiet this morning. Imperial Troops hold church service down in the Olive grove, the singing sounds very sweet it carries ones memories back to more pleasant surroundings. Spent afternoon writing letters. Went into fireing line at 4P.M. Had a little Bomb practice at the Turks expense to night. This Sunday has been an exception we generally have some scrapping weekends.