6th Aug Great activity in our lines to day putting final touches to everything, such as sewing our white arm bands on to Tunic,s and also on the back, so as to distinguish our own men in case of a mix up to night. Water bottles are filled and enough rations for 48 hours. The 4th Brigade addressed by Brig-General Monash this afternoon when we had our portion of the programme explained to us. The 29th Indian Brigade came ashore last night and were hidden away in dug-outs in case enemy aeroplanes should hover over position and see new troops and raise the alarm, up till the present everything has gone off well. About 5P.M our Howitzer,s of which we have quite a large number, although of a very old pattern, started a heavy Bombardment of the Turkish position right along the whole front And what a din. Our boys received orders not to fire a shot in the advance, everything was to be done with the bayonet. Our Brigade moved quietly out after dark to wards No. 3 Outpost, where we were to support the New Zealanders in the assault on the Foot-hills at "Taylors Gap" About 9P.M the assault commenced in earnest the N.Z,s and "Maori,s" led off with our Brigade in Support, The Turks were caught napping and the majority went off at the double, some hung on and fought desperately but were either killed or taken prisoners, as we were to strong in numbers for them, there were several hand-to-hand combats with the Turks and old B. Coy. The little hill above "Taylors Gap" was strewn with dead and badly wounded whose cries for Water Water were pitiful. We had received orders before the assault that men wounded in the abdomen were not to be given water as it would do them more harm than good. Our Coy lost many men about this spot, young Dawson "Sutton" Robertson Walker and several other chaps that came away in the 2nd Reinforcements with me were killed or wounded. Away we went tumbling over rocks and bushes in the dark and yelling out any old thing to make a noise, wherever we saw a rifle spit we would make for it and so on in the hurly-burly
About 11 o,clock Lieut Perry was struck in the shoulder and Lieut Marks was wounded and had to retire. Lieut Pulling was shot dead. We could hear the Turk artillery getting their guns away in the dark, but unfortunately we were to late to make a capture.
What a night, we could hear the NZ,s yelling away on our right as they made their way up to "Chunak Bair", we came upon some barb-wire entanglements but after battering and tearing away for a time we got through, and went on with Capt Salier.