 [Page 40] 
 daily worry a mother, the sicknesses at home, sometimes death, and no husband to assist her, to sympathise with her, to help her bear the burden. 
 I give a few verses which I&nbsp;read in France - I wonder if we realise what our women-folk were going through for us and I wonder how many of us remained as true to them as they were to us. 
  FOR HONOUR AND FOR HER . 
 Somewhere a woman, thrusting fear away, 
 Faces the future bravely for your sake, 
 Toils on from dawn to dark; from day to day 
 Fights back her tears, nor heeds the bitter ache; 
 She loves you, trusts you, breathes in prayer your name; 
 Soil not her faith in you by sin or shame. 
 &nbsp; 
 Somewhere a woman - mother, sweetheart, wife, 
 Waits between hopes and fears, for your return. 
 Her kiss, her words, will cheer you in the strife, 
 When death itself confronts you grim and stern; 
 But let her image all your reverence claim 
 When base temptations scorch you with their flame. 
 Somewhere a woman watches thrilled with pride, Shrined in your heart, you share a place with none. 
 She toils, she waits, she prays, till side by side 
 You stand together when the battle&#39;s done. 
 O keep for her dear sake a stainless name, 
 Bring back to her a manhood free from shame. 
 -------------------------------------------------------------- 
 No! the husband or brother is away &quot;doing his bit&quot;, and the illness or death of him may be the next thing for that poor, but brave woman to bear. Does she complain? I say emphatically, No! She is proud to be able to say her husband or brother is &quot;at the front&quot;. But how does she feel, what are her thoughts nightly, as she prays that he may return to her. Yes! she is the one that the war has touched, more, far more than the men who went. And she bore all these things with a fortitude that God gave to woman only. Mere man could never have borne the strain. She went about her daily monotonous duties, with a smiling face, bore her multitudinous petty worries without a murmur, and she went to bed at night, with a heart near to breaking, but a soul full of hope (accompanied by a prayer) that her loved 