
 
compared with a "digger".
A corporal was in the same hut as myself, suffering from some fever or other, I'm not sure what it was. However the doctor who attended to us, (not one of our Battalion doctors) came in daily, and used to treat the corporal in a very off-hand manner, until one day he called as usual and was informed that the corporal had just received his commission as an officer.  The whole attitude of that doctor underwent a change.  He went to the corporal and after shaking his hand, said "I'll have you moved down to my hut, Mr ........ you'll be far more comfortable there, and receive better attention".  To our delight the newly-made officer replied that he preferred to remain where he was, he was very well treated by the A.M.C. fellows, His whole tone showing what his opinion was of the doctor.  Yes! the diggers got a pretty rotten "spin" at times.
I must say that our battalion doctor was no swanking humbug, he treated the digger the same as he would an officer.  He did all he possibly could for us, but he was hard nuts on the malingerer (our term was "swinging the lead").  It was useless a man appearing before him unless he had something wrong, our doc. would very soon see through that chap, and he would suffer for it too.
After I had been in the hospital about three days our battalion came along.  I joined them and we commenced our march a few miles "back" for a short rest, (what on earth induced them to call it a "rest" beats me, for as a rule we had more work to do when we were "out for a rest", than we had when "in the line".
While I was in the field hospital, a fellow told the "quack" (our term for doctor), that he had pains in the back.  After showing the positions of the pain, the quack got a mug and a glass and, after pouring a little methylated spirits into each and lighting it, (the fellow having in the meantime removed his clothing), he placed them on the chap's back where the pain was, thereby causing a "suction".  I watched the flesh "going into the