
that, a sponge) every morning, and I was never so keen as when it was impossible to procure one. At the time I write about, the shell-holes, and all other supplies of water were frozen, so I had perforce to forego my morning ablutions. Luckily there was a fair quantity of snow on the ground, so each morning before breakfast, would find me just clad in my boots, standing outside rubbing myself all over with this useful substitute for water. The fellows of course had quite decided that I was mad. It has been suggested that this habit of mine was the probable cause of my shortness of stature. Many fellows imagined I was doing this to produce "Pneumonia" or some such form of sickness, so that I might be sent "back" to the base.
    We remain in this camp till 27th. January '17 and then move up to what they call the "reserves".
                            CHAPTER XVI
                        DUG-OUT DOMICILES.
    We arrive in the vicinity of Flers during the afternoon, and at once proceed to select our "dug-outs". Don't run away with the idea that these dug-outs are well timbered or in any way secure or comfortable, such as you see in pictures. Oh no! they are just holes burrowed in the side of any hillock or incline, with perhaps a sheet of iron  over the top covered with mud or sandbags. We are not like human beings now. we live in the earth like lizards, (I believe they do live in holes) or rabbits. The whole place is like a huge rabbit warren. Wherever you look you see a small opening in the ground. In the sides of big shell-holes was a favorite position.
    Inside these"holes"there was just enough room to accomodate one or perhaps two men. I shared my dug-out with a corporal and I, just a "digger".
    Our dug-out was what might be termed a "right-angled" one. Crawl in about three feet, then turn sharp to the left, and lie down. I say lie down, because the height did not allow of our sitting up. There was just room (and not more) for us to both lie straight down, the limited space did