
going as far as was considered necessary by train, marched to a camp on the outskirts of
BAILLEUL.
A fine large and flourishing town, almost on the border of France and Belgium.  Streets - as is the case in most Belgian and French towns - cobbled, which is not by any means the most comfortable material to march on.  Very fine buildings in this town, and as usual many houses where we are made most welcome by the fair damsels who do dwell therein.
A large aerodrome is just outside the town, as is also a huge ammunition "dump", adjoining the railway, which later was blown up by some well-directed shells from the enemy, the shock thereby causing the collapse of several houses in the vicinity.
An enormous lunatic asylum is also here.  There appear to be any number of these institutions in these two countries, makes one wonder why!
The Belgian people do not appear to be as excitable as the French.  The latter I should imagine would be a dumb nation if their hands and feet were bound.  They cannot seem to speak without throwing themselves about and gesticulating with their arms.  However!  they succeed in conveying their meaning by their actions rather than by their words.
There is one difference most noticeable here as compared with Buire and that is that there the beer is of a better quality, I mean that it has more the appearance of beer, it is quite possible to put a "head" on it if you hold the bottle sufficiently high.  It costs a little more, but we don't mind that as we are supplied with glasses here, whereas in the other place only old milk and cocoa tins were provided and they were not over clean, and cut our lips about a good bit.  There was one thing about the beer of both places, you could drink solidly for hours and it would never get to your head or legs.  It was impossible to become intoxicated through drinking beer.  With some of the other alcoholic refreshments provided, the reverse was the result, and pretty quick too.  What awful stuff we poured down our necks in