
ing post in front of our position.  Needless to say I am one of the chosen ones.  A guide conducts the three of us to the spot selected which is just a shell-hole, the floor is of course the usual mud.
We take our "seats" on a bit of wood and gradually begin to sink in the clay.  Our eyes soon become accustomed to the darkness.  Our bayonets appear to shine brighter than usual, so we rub some mud on them,so as to lessen the chance of detection.  We can distinctly hear the voices of the officers giving orders, and the noise of the transports just above us.  Gee, a wee bit nervy.  We are unpleasantly close to "them".
All night through as on other fronts so here, the enemy continuously sends up flare rockets, which light up the whole surroundings.  I think it was Napoleon who said that "an army moved on it's belly" meaning that of course men must be fed well to fight well.  In our case the quotation became practical.  We must crawl along, not walk, as we should at once be "spotted" when the flares went up.
The corporal was a man (a very big man too) of a very nervous and imaginative disposition, and he succeeded in "getting the wind up me" on more than one occasion.  He would imagine he saw small knots of the enemy moving cautiously about in front, and tell us to watch a certain spot when the next flare went up.  He said it was no doubt a reconnoitering party of the enemy.  In all cases they proved to be nothing but bushes.  I felt like hitting him over the head with my rifle.  The job was unnerving enough, goodness knows, without his "putting the wind up" us unnecessarily. Still he was boss, and had to be jolly careful.  'Twas better to be sure than sorry.
Time dragged on and our feet and legs became firmer and firmer embedded in the clay.  Cold was not the word for it.  Our feet had lost all feeling.  It snowed and rained in turns.  We were a happy trio!
At about 3.45. a.m. I crawled back to our lines, but when close to one of our "outposts" I was challenged "Halt! who goes there".  Ye gods' . the blood froze in my veins.  I had not got the password.  What would happen?  I just