
explosion and shrieks from men.  This awakened the neighbourhood, everyone rushed from their billets, to the place from whence came the unmistakable sounds of suffering humanity.  We had not far to seek.  One of the big sheds had been hit by a shell, there were dead, dying, and wounded and pandemonium reigned.  I think there were over one hundred and sixty casualties resulting from two shells, nearly all being members of our 14th Battalion.
The shells that night had me running all over the place, taking cover behind the most absurd and senseless places.  Ditches, ruts in the fields or roads, or blades of grass, then when I was quite fagged out I went back to the house and joined others in the cellar, which was after all the safest place of all.  Why I had not gone there first is more than I can tell.  Just a new phase of my idiocy, I suppose.  I shall never forget that night as long as I live.  The other chap just stayed where he was all the time and no doubt laughed at me running all over the place.  His calmness and coolness irritated me almost beyond endurance.  Worry, not he.  Fear, he didn't know the meaning of.  He annoyed me beyond measure.  I'd say sometimes "By jove! he's getting a bit close, I'm going down the cellar".  He would simply ask me why?  He never heard the jolly things falling, or if he did it didn't worry him, and he would still carry on his work as if he were in his own office at Kalgoorlie.
We remain about ten days then move on to
BUSSY-LES-DAORS.
a small village, a place I never took a fancy to.  It had not been shelled, but one felt that at any moment "he" might start.
While here I obtain a few days leave and visit Paris.  Well! everyone knows this city, and it would be impossible to exaggerate Paris.  They say there is only one Paris in the world, and my impressions were quite in accord with that verdict.  Paris stands alone in my opinion as a most beautiful city, and as a place where the maximum amount of varied amusements abound.  The customs of the French are different from the English.  I spent a most enjoyable time and all my cash in Paris, and then went back to the village