
There were under fifty men in our trench, and here were hundreds coming to attack us.  Nothing short of a miracle could save us.  We only had about two officers left, the others had all fallen early in the attack, among whom was our Commanding Officer and leader - Captain L.L.Smith -.
Of course we all suggested different things to do.  I was for waiting till they were about to enter the trench then all rush out and meet them as they entered with bayonets, and yell all the time.  However whatever should happen we anticipated that the final result would be the same, that our time had come.
Our sergeant major was a man (luckily for us) who never became excited, even at this time he was just as cool as if he had been at a sports meeting, and this was only a portion of the arranged programme.  He went in search of the officer in charge, but failing to find him he took the matter in his own hands, and "rang up" the artillery giving them the particulars and positions of the attacking enemy.  This was our salvation.  In a very few moments we saw panic amongst the enemy forces who were marching against us.  Our artillery had got straight on to them and had created such havoc in their ranks that they decided that "discretion was the better part of valour" and after halting and conversing for a while (during which time the guns were still accounting for many) retired in much disorder.  We nearly emptied our bandoliers of cartridges at that crowd.  You talk about rapid firing, I didn't know what it meant when going through my "course" at the ranges, but I guess I did my bit this day.
It is impossible to express our feelings of relief at the sight of them clearing off, but we had yet to keep a very sharp watch, as they would doubtless try again, or use some other method.  Everyone of us did parapet duty that night.
Snow was by this time about four inches deep on the ground so that it made it easier to distinguish any moving objects during the night.
At about eleven o'clock I went round and issued rum to all in our
 