
- 105 -
the uniform of my prisoner, he made one unholy bound for him and got his hands on the poor chap's throat and putting his leg through his arms planted his foot in Horatio's face.  I fully expected to see him tear the throat clean out of Horatio.  We had great difficulty in dragging the Scotty away.  He left (after a bit of "language"), but not before he had given the poor chap a blow or two, then throwing handsful of mud in his face, and spitting at him, he departed hurling curses until he was out of earshot.  Poor old Horatio was trembling like a leaf and I've no doubt he was a very thankful man when he joined his comrades in our prisoner's of war cage.  I never saw the old chap again.
After we had got over the excitement of the early morning, the bitter cold began to make itself felt.  Lying still (when we were not slipping) along that parapet was awful.  We were continually firing at any of the enemy who became visible.
During the afternoon we noticed that there appeared to be more activity in front of us.  A little way from the village on our left were fairly large clumps of trees dotted about.  From these trees we saw little knots of the enemy going towards the village.  Then several men on horses appeared going from the village, they would stop and converse with some of those they met, and then proceed on to the shelter of the trees.  Of course all this time we would be blazing away at them with our rifles and machine guns.  We wondered if they were contemplating a counter attack, later in the evening.
Things went on in this manner till dusk.  Then we saw masses of men marching in our direction.  Their bombardment of our position increased, and their machine-gunners became more active.  Ah! then it was to be a counter attack.  How should we fare, with so few men against so many?
When about half way to us they separated into three different bodies, one body coming towards the end of our trench, another towards the centre and the third continuing towards the further end of our new possessions.
The first body was our immediate concern, they could so easily enter from the village which they had just left.  What was going to happen?