
for our parade ground.  This is invariably - if there is one about - a ploughed field, or some rough stuff which needs levelling.
All the way to this place the sergeants or officers have been yelling at us to keep our heads up, (they had apparently forgotten that we had only lately come from a place where it was advisable to "keep them down") and keep in step, and lift your feet up, (this becomes the more difficult with each step you take, especially in muddy fields.).
"Halt, left turn, right dress".  "Stand at ease".  We are left undisturbed for a considerable time, while the officers present appear to be looking round the country for a rougher spot, and failing to find one, enter into a discussion as to what shall be the next move.
They generally succeed in finding something which occupies our minds and fatigues our bodies, by the time we return to our billets for the midday meal.
The afternoons are much the same.  Sometimes the whole programme is altered to a route march, or any other things which will fill in the time, and make it enjoyable while we are out for a "rest".  Sham fights, or attacking positions, were great "stunts", but unfortunately the genuine thing was little like these.  To kill time (for us) was the main thing apparently.
"Saluting".  This was one of the most necessary qualifications, in fact, there was really more attention given to this subject by some officers than to any other.  We must never neglect to salute an officer, and we must do it smartly, not as if we didn't care a damn about the thing.  This saluting business was so ground into us that upon my soul some of us considered that in this one subject was combined all the qualifications necessary to create an efficient soldier.  Anyway, without studying and becoming proficient in this all-absorbing subject, a fellow had better leave off soldiering altogether.
Salute and do it smartly on every conceivable occasion, in fact go "out of your way" to do it, and you will soon get a stripe or two.  Fail to