
steps until we finally arrive at the sugar refinery where our cookers still remain.  Here is a banquet indeed, hot tea and stew.  Our cook "Tom" always studied our welfare.  We could always depend on "Tom" and his mates having something hot on our return.
After partaking of our meal, we simply lie down where we are, in the open, wet through, mud from head to foot, and dead tired, we sleep a well-earned sleep.
The following morning after breakfast we turn to and endeavour to relieve ourselves of some of the mud, then a general clean-up of our rifles and equipment.  We think (poor fools) that in a day or so the sun may shine and dry our clothes a bit.
Personally I thought that I should never be clean again.  After I had scraped some of the mud from my clothes and had a bit of a clean-up and attended to my rifle, I went about looking for a dry and sheltered spot to try and obtain a sleep, or in any case remove my boots for a time.  I didn't fancy that wretched building on the hill.
A fellow offered me the use of his dug-out. It comprised just a bit of a hole scooped out of the side of the bank of the road along which "Darkie" and myself had passed a few hours ago, with a sheet of iron fixed up to keep out the weather, and a blanket hung round to keep out the wind.  I thanked him and crawled in and took off my boots and had just started to rub my feet when I saw a huge shell explode about a hundred yards immediately in front.  A few moments later another exploded nearer, which was followed by another which hit the opposite side of the road, covering me with mud.  It was time to move, and I can tell you that I "stood not in the order of my going" either, but dragged on my boots and just went down that road for all I was worth.  I heard the next explosion, and later saw where the dug-out had been.  If I hadn't moved when I did well!  I shouldn't be writing this story now.
Most of that day my intended rest consisted of continuous spurts, running from shells which I imagined had got my number on.  That night I slept