
are absolutely essential.
We stand in this sunken road, cold and miserable for about an hour and then our officer informs us that as we may be here for a couple of days, and as all the available dugouts are occupied by another battalion, we shall have to set to and make homes for ourselves.  We say very little, but think an awful lot.  However there is nothing for it, so some go looking round and commence making a shelter for themselves, while others just lie down anywhere.
Another chap and myself, "fed up" with everything, promptly make up our mind's to commit suicide, but don't like to do the thing in a way that may reflect discredit on ourselves after we have gone, so we decide to let the enemy be blamed.  We go up on the higher land where the shells are thickest and lie down, with just a blanket over us for shelter.  Of course nothing happens to us, shells burst all round but not one comes near enough to harm us.  We come to the conclusion that we are being saved for some reason.
We wake (oh yes! we got some sleep) and after breakfast an order is sent round that all rifles and ammunition have to be cleaned.  Of course we all naturally jump to the conclusion that we are again going to "move forward".  We always did think the wrong thing.
The whole of that sunken road looked like a huge rabbit-warren. There was hardly a foot of the sides which had not some hole in it, made either by the labour of mans hands or the labour of mans brain (shells).  Stretcher bearers are still passing along with their burdens, and the shelling still continues to add to their numbers.
The terrible picture of last night is still before me.  The long lines of stretchers with their wounded, being added to each minute.  The continuous cry of "stretcher bearers wanted here", and "make way for the stretcher bearers".  The inferno of bursting shells.  The rain and mud.  The constant rushing here and there to avoid a shell, and the climax when we find that we are to stay there for two days, after our late experiences fairly