
some putty stuff, and almost breaking my jaw with a horse-shoe arrangement, told me to call the following Sunday to "try on" or "fit in" or something of that sort.  I duly called and after sitting in his chair and having my mouth mauled about a good deal, explained my visit.  He at once took a "set" from a basin and started to try and make them fit me.  After pushing down one side and then the other and the opposite side rising up each time, he seemed to think something must be wrong.  He "stood off" and looked at me for some time, making me feel quite nervous.  At last when I had been able to get my mouth back to something like it's normal shape, I managed to tell him that the "plate" he had been trying to make fit my mouth had front teeth, whereas I already had some of my own.  He then asked my name and found that he had been trying to fix another chap's teeth in my mouth.  However later he told me that my "plate" had been broken while being made.  I did not worry him any further, but carried on with what remained of those which nature had provided.
During our stay in this locality, I visit many of the surrounding villages, one especially stands out in my memory, a pretty, quiet, and peaceful little village, in which was a very fine chateau.  This same village - Baizienx - I visited again some months later, but what an alteration.  Where peace was, war reigned.  Where pretty cottages stood, ruin and desolation abounded.  Where children played and happy families lived, the merciless shells of the enemy were playing cruel havoc.
We remain in this locality till the latter end of May '17 and then move north.
CHAPTER XXX1.
BELGIUM.
This was my first visit to Belgium.  Ever since I arrived from England the battalion had been on the Somme.  I looked forward to a better time.  The mud I thought would or rather could not be so bad, and I had heard that things appertaining to the war were quieter up here.  Results proved otherwise.
We travelled in the usual way, horse and cattle trucks, and after