
risks of having portions of myself chipped off by bits of enemy iron foundries.
We only stay here for a few days and then move a good way "back", the journey being done in lorries.
The battalions of course did the journey "per foot", but it was quite the usual thing for the head quarters fellows to travel by lorries as it was necessary to have things in working order before the troops arrived in the locality.  After many hours travelling we arrive at
BOMY.
Absolutely the prettiest spot I have seen.  In a glorious valley nestling amongst the trees stands this picturesque and old time village, peaceful and quiet, right away from the scene of strife, only at times is the distant boom of the guns heard, and only occasionally does the enemy 'plane pass over, but drops no "eggs" en passant.  We are very comfortable here.  Our office and sleeping accommodation is in a nice house owned and occupied by a wealthy wine merchant, his wife and very pretty daughter, whose husband is at the front.  Have a very good time here.  Orchards and gardens amongst the hills and valleys tend to make one almost forget the misery of the outside world.
We arrive here very early in September '17, and during this month I shall be entitled to my first "Blighty leave.  I therefore "word" the boss about the matter, of course fully expecting that he will roar at me, on the contrary he was very nice, in fact seemed to rather jump at the opportunity of getting rid of me for a time.  He told me that I had better see the Camp Commandant and fix it up.  I wasted no time as you may well imagine, with the result that my leave would start and date from the 20th. of the month.  Got fixed up with the necessary papers and ration cards, drew what money I should require for the journey, then appeared before the "quack" for him to examine me, as he had to sign a certificate that I was free from vermin, and scabies.
On the morning of the 18th. I bid farewell to my friends and peaceful Bomy and get a lift in the "postal" lorry to the railway station, where I report to the R.T.O. and proceed to Boulonge to embark from there on