
said "Its alright it's only Gill from the listening post". "Oh! righto , Gill pass on," came the reply.  To my unbounded relief, the chap knew my voice and I his, What a narrow squeak though.
I crawled on and arriving at our lines was informed by the officer that I had left too soon, that we must not vacate the post till 4/15 . So back I had to go.  Can't understand how a fellow missed being hit that night.
At 4.15.a.m. we loosened each others legs and singly crawled back to our lines, having in the meantime obtained the password.  The corporal joined his friend, while the other fellow and myself dug a hole in the ground sufficiently large to enable us to be out of sight during the day which was already dawning.  After digging down about three feet, we "cut" under so as to be sheltered from the rain and shrapnel.  We had no sooner got in and settled ourselves for an attempt at sleep, than the whole lot of earth under which we had dug fell in and nearly buried us.  We dare not stand up as it was daylight, so we simply had to wriggle about and in this way gradually move the mud from the top of us.  The "floor" rose and fell to every movement we made, while the longer we remained in one position the more would the soft mud "ooze" over us.  We go through all kinds of contortions to try and get warm and to in some way ease our cramped bodies.  What food we had is saturated as is everything else.  Manage to open a tin of "bully" and that with a "wafer" constitutes our banquet.  I look at my mate and say "It's a grand little war isn't it?" and we both enjoy a good laugh at our abject misery.  A little Aussie sun would fix us up.  We talk of our homes which we have pretty well decided that we shall never see again.
We stay in this position suffering tortures from cramp and cold until dusk when we have to put on our equipment and "stand to", but this time we remain in our holes.
During the day all kinds of"iron foundries" fall about us, which succeed in diverting our thoughts at times from our misery.
After darkness sets in we again take up our positions at the