
bombs drop perilously near but he still carried on, and refused to budge.  I used to tell him that he was tempting Providence, but 'twas no good, he simply said that if he was to be killed he would be, and that was the end of it.
One night stands out clearly in my memory, it was the 20th.May ' 18 the enemy had made himself more unpleasant than usual the whole day, and when night fell he came over in relays bombing for all he was worth.
He apparently intended to get that big railway gun or in some way stop it from travelling on the line.  He bombed incessantly from about nine o'clock that night.  As before stated there was a railway bridge not far from our domicile, well! under this bridge about ten "Tommies" had their habitation and this night they were all rolled up in their blankets, (doubtless feeling pretty safe under the shelter of the bridge) when "he" came over with his "eggs".  Two of our fellows were coming home and hearing the bombs falling close decided to wait for a while under this bridge.  They had no sooner arrived under same when a bomb fell on the side of the road, and burst, the contents of same killed about six outright, the rest being more or less wounded, but the whole lot died the following day.
The first intimation we had at our billet was a hammering at the door (we were all - with the exception of the other clerk, who still remained upstairs - in the small cellar) and on our going up a "Tommie" limped in and explained the situation.  We all (after binding his wounds) went to the scene, and with the help of electric torches place the wounded on stretchers, and carry the dead up to our "office".  We at once ring up for ambulances, they are all pretty busy, but eventually two or three arrive, and amidst the awful inferno of bursting bombs and shells we do our heartrending work.
Of our two, one was the Traffic Control officer, who was a general favorite, he was killed outright, the other died the following morning.
On our return to our domicile after this awful business, we found the "Tommie" doubled up with pain, and on closer examination found a