
one, decided to vacate the premises, under the impression that at last the enemy had determined to destroy the buildings.  No sooner had they got outside than a shell exploded amongst them, killing three outright, and wounding sixteen others.  The sight is one that I can never efface from my memory.  Two more died on the way to the "dressing station" leaving fourteen wounded, many seriously.
This happening at such a time, (on the eve of our attack) appears as an evil omen.  Our spirits fell, and our nerves were much shaken.  However, gruesome as it was, we could not allow our minds to dwell on this painful subject.
The one man who remained in the billet unhurt, was a chap who took things as they came, never seemed to worry over anything, always full of fun, and ever ready with a joke, even in the most serious predicaments.  On this occasion he refused to leave the billet with the others stating that if he had to be killed he would at least die in as reasonable comfort as possible.  He was not going out in the cold, to avoid a shell which after all might not have "his number" on it.  Not he!  If a shell was intended for him, let it come to him, he was just as safe there and far more comfortable.  I've never seen that chap "windy" or excited, but I've seen him absolutely fagged out, as I will tell later.  Tired, yes! even too tired for him to crack a joke.  He was rough, very rough, but a better hearted fellow never breathed.
If I had been with them at this time I should most undoubtedly have gone with the majority, outside.  I was always a bit "windy".  So my one-stripe on this occasion in all probability saved my life.  I was absent from the billet very little more than half an hour.
We had our tea, a very gloomy meal, we none of us felt over lively, it might be the last time that we should meet again in such a way.  The conversation was centred on the events of the afternoon, and for a while took our minds off the horrors which tomorrow might have in store for us.
 