
NAMUR.
another large town and well worth a visit.  Streets are very narrow but a very busy place.  A great railway centre, where the railway people have nothing to learn from us in the respect to politeness and do not expect a"tip" for their assistance.  They help the foreigner in every possible way - they do it because it appeals to their nature. - and take it as a pleasure to be of service to you.  No! they don't expect tips, they don't want favors, they are above that kind of thing.  They do their job to the best of their ability, and if they please you, they are satisfied.  I don't say they would refuse a "tip", but what I say is that they don't expect one, and you get just as good attention without giving one.  Wonder if we should in our own countries, eh!
Many other places are within reasonable distance and afford an opportunity of seeing this much troubled country under their altered conditions.
We have many dances while at Dinant, the towns people entering into the enjoyment with much "vim".  Christmas day was carried out in real good style.  A great feast had been prepared, and being the first peaceful one for some years, we were allowed to procure an almost unlimited supply of that beverage "which maketh glad the heart of man" and which incidentally makes the same portion of the female anatomy more "pliable".  The night of that Xmas day I think many of the Dinanites will ever remember.  The "banquet" was very English, but the amusements and various forms of enjoyment later, were hardly what one would expect to find in the typical English home.  However it was a means of learning and understanding more of the people with whom we were sojourning.  Ah, well!
About this time I was promoted to a corporal, and the means whereby I gained this preferment were both novel in the way of getting, and somewhat surprising in the matter of the retention of the said rank.  It was during the absence for a couple of days of the boss, that a list was called for by the headquarters of all those men who had enlisted very early in the war.  There was no allowance for another corporal in the section I belonged to so