
whole way to Paddington.  The journey occupied about two and a half hours.  There were in the carriage, two "Tommies", eight civilian men - or things dressed as such - and two ladies.  One of the latter sat on the other's knee the whole distance.  Not one of these male beings offered his seat to the lady, of course not to me, no! that did not in the least surprise me, I should have been almost speechless with surprise if one of them had even offered to change with me for a few minutes only.  On arrival at Paddington, I caught an underground train to Victoria, standing again the whole distance, and on arrival at the latter place found that the last car had gone, so with a portmanteau, overcoat, and macintosh, had to walk to my home in Forest Hill, a distance of about seven miles.  No! its of no use trying to dodge the crowd, just go where you fancy and when, it can make no difference.  If you fancy you have found a spot somewhere in the British Isles where crowds do not flock to at the time you wish to be there in peace and solitude, well you just keep it to yourself, don't tell anyone about it, and then catch a train to that place at dead of night, and you'll find it packed with people who have thought as you have, and are also going to the selfsame place as you for quietude and peace.  No! it's no good.  A quiet holiday is a "washout". especially at Easter time, in England.
                                         ---------------------------------
One of the many forms of my lunacy, which led me into much trouble and considerable danger at times was the habit or craze which took possession of me and try as I would could not shake it off.  I refer to the irresistible and uncontrollable habit I contracted of picking up pins.  Not any special kind of pin, but just the ordinary everyday common-or-garden pin.  Safety pins, broaches, tiepins I would pass by, but I never could see an ordinary pin on the pavements or roads, no matter how much traffic was about, without stooping and picking up that pin.  That I more than once got knocked over in the process of this absurd habit, did not in the slightest degree