
ing "cad" who no doubt imagines that he is a perfect gentleman.  Among the poorer dressed menfolk this lack of chivalry was not so noticeable, they would invariably "rise" and offer their seat to the other sex.
In the struggles for trams and busses the Aussies were quite noted for the way in which they would assist the female travellers and deal out "manners" to the male folk.  Is it any wonder that the "turned up hats" became such favorites amont the fair sex, to the detriment of their own men.  Is it any wonder that the menfolk, - the young swanking well-dressed cads I mean, - should dislike us.
                         ----------------------------------------
Holiday making in England is undertaken often under very disadvantageous circumstances.  Especially is this noticeable at the season of Easter.  At this period of the year nearly everyone wishes to get away from the city for a few days spell and the "going" is fraught with excitement and sometimes danger in the enormous crowds which throng the stations of the metropolis, from early morning till late at night.
Wherever you may decide to travel to for your Easter few days, you can always depend on having plenty of companions.  Pick the most secluded and out-of-the-way spot, and crowds will have done the same.  Choose mid-winter for your vacation and thousands will travel by the same train and to the same place.  Try and avoid going to the place where some of your relations may be going, and you will be surprised to see them on the platform waiting for the same train as yourself, or you will find them domiciled in the hotel which you have chosen as being more secluded and private than any others.  You can go nowhere in privacy especially at Easter time.
I had two Easters while in England, the first I spent near Oxford, thinking that very few would go that way as the weather was so beautiful, I imagined that they would all go to the seaside.  I travelled down in a train packed like sardines, and returned on the Monday following under worse conditions.  I boarded the train at Oxford at about 9.p.m. and stood up the
 