
the military authorities, there must be a flaw somewhere.
The custom up to the time of my arrival had been that every soldier on being discharged was given a free pass on all railways of the state to which he belonged also a free pass on the trams, these priviledges to end on the expiration of his military leave.
To the many thousands who had already returned, this privilege had been granted, but the few who returned in the same boat as myself were not allowed to enjoy the aforesaid privileges.  The rule had been "cut out".  The practice had been discontinued.  Now I ask you, or any other intelligent being, "Can you imagine anything so petty and small-minded as this action?  I don't think there were a dozen men returning on the same boat as myself, and we were penalised through some senseless new and idiotic ruling.  Thousands, yes, tens of thousands had been granted free passes on the railways and tramways of the state, during the currency of their leave, - before finally severing their connections with the military - but for a mere handful of men who had been employed by the military for a longer period that [than?] the others, a new rule was made debarring them from free passes of any description.  Many of us were working during the whole voyage home, and yet we had to pay our own fares from the very first day of landing in our native state.
I thought there must be some flaw, a fly in the ointment somewhere.  I felt that there was bound to be something that would cause dissatisfaction.  Why should the last few arriving be treated any different from all the others?  Why should they be penalised because their services were retained by the authorities in London?  This action was like many others of the military generally, petty, mean, and contemptible to a degree.  One can only put it down to some action by someone in authority who had taken no "risky" activity during the progress of the war, but had on the other hand remained - in the comfort and safety of a remunerative position on the staff of the military authorities - in Australia.
The action of the military to those on the same boat as myself
 