  
 Thursday 14 October 1915  6 a.m. in Mudros harbour. A spacious sheet of almost completely enclosed water, large [enough] to accomodate very many ships, now occupied at its uppermost part. We anchored in the outer end Tripple barred entrance, nets and floats. Saw a small French Submarine pass in rear of our ship at 7 am   Anchored far up in Mudros Bay alongside a transport, much larger than our ship.  
 Friday 15 October 1915  About 12 noon was warned to be ready to leave the ship at 2 p.m. All packed by 1 pm. On board the pinnace at 1-55 p.m. Moved away a few minutes after 2 o'clock & were taken across the harbour to a steamer of the  Kehd  Kedhevial [Khedivial] line - the El Kadra - ? - Climbed the ladder on board. Left the anchorage about 4 p.m., passed through the nets at about 5 pm. & headed for Anzac. Head wind. Surface of sea roughened.  Left letters on board the Ismailia for home.  
 Saturday 16 October 1915  Arrived Anzac about 1 a.m. Landed and got to bed about 2-30 pm. [a.m.] on a Stretcher. Breakfast 1 st  Australian Casualty hospital, Major Gordon from Melbourne. Saw Col. Howes D.D.M.S. Nothing for me to do. To stay on at 1.A.C.H. for a few days awaiting events. Wander on side of the hills all day. Met Fiaschi he took me to the top of the hills to the look outs on left of the line, looked out over Suvla Bay, saw fleet & British trenches opposite Turkish trenches. Looked through a periscope at the Turkish trenches. Met Col. Meredith, from Raymond Terrace. Met several others whom I knew.  
 Sunday 17 October 1915  Did not know about Mass. Forgot 'twas Sunday till too late Went to left of position, met Fiaschi, walked round to different places with him during the morning lunched with him. Rested between 3 & 4-45 pm. Went to right of position Met Charley Cox Lieu. Col.walked round with him, went to his quarters. Rifle fire & shells all day long. Rifle fire, machine guns & shells at night Saw some shells fall on the hills not far from us when I was with Fiaschi  