 [Page 378] 
 "engineers" &amp; quietly pointed out how things were. 
 Two other men had taken the youngsters places &amp; were working away as fast as possible, when this working Engineer, notwithstanding the presence of the officer, came walking along &amp; called out, Here! What the devil are you doing! Do you want to break that pump! You know you can't go to a shop &amp; buy another? What idiot told you to work a pump in that silly manner! Stop at once! I'm responsible for that! 
 He then showed how the stroke must be a very slow one otherwise the plunger will not go to its full length &amp; it would be impossible to lift the proper weight of water. Of course all the men had a good "hearty" "grin" but the officer simply turned &amp; walked away. When the pump was "handled" in a proper manner the work was not nearly so laborious &amp; the amount of water lifted was just doubled. 
 About 20 minutes after this incident the officer came back &amp; very officiously called to the youngster who had insulted him &amp; taking out his note-book, wanted to know his Name Number, Battalion etc. These were given. 
 Do you know where your battalion is? said the officer Yes! said the youngster. Where? asked the officer. In the line, not 200 yards away! said the youngster. 
 As the Battalion was really better off there, than where the workers were, &amp; were certainly having a much easier time in the line, the officer who could only send the youngster back, would not do so under these circumstances so he pocketed his insult, &amp; the youngster remained one of the party till the end. 
 It did not take long for it to be noticed &amp; remarked that this officer would never go up into the trench when there was any shelling going on, but after it had passed &amp; was miles away on the right or left, he would not only come up into the trench but would mount the steps &amp; stand up on the parapet &amp; striking an almost Napoleonic attitude, would gaze quietly &amp; serenely at the distant shelling 
