<p class="page" id="a3361056">[Page 56]</p>
<p>Delville Wood 11/11/16 At 4.15 am a heavy and intense bombardment commenced and continued until dawn after which the usual rumble and roar kept up all day.  An air fight took place while having breakfast.  With the Padre went across to the 6th Field Ambulance and found many sick being evacuated.  Their tents are situated on a rise lined with many guns.  This morning a shell killed young Thomas brother to he of the [indecipherable] and while there they buried an officer of the 5th Bde. his head a mass of bandages and an ugly blood daub remaining on the stretcher.  Heavy guns all along this ridge &ndash; their shells resting behind them.  Got onto the road which was muddy and crowded with traffic and pushed in to Delville Wood.  Soon came to an open piece of ground covered with dead men.  They lay as they had fallen in the fight.  The first body was that of an officer evidently a platoon commander, his cap had fallen from his haversack and lay alongside.  Only a few bones and shreds of skin remained in his clothes.  All round lay the bodies of men in their full equipment the corpses covered thick with dead black maggots like rat dung.  The steel helmets were still on the heads being held on under the jawbones by the chin strap.  Turning over one helmet a complete head covered with dark brown hair was found inside it.  One head was lying shrivelled up some distance away from its body and in the centre of the parting in the hair was the neat little hole which showed where the fatal bullet had entered. One man appeared to have been almost divided in two as his breast and the front of his body was there but back of body and thighs were missing.  Several skulls were lying there quite devoid of any flesh or hair as if their owners had been dead for ages.  We remarked how Nature is her own scavenger.  There was a man who had been cut in two by a shell.  He lay on his back with all his equipment still on him.  Out of his own body as soon</p>
