<p class="page" id="a3361067">[Page 67]</p>
<p>In Action Flers 19/11/16  These boys are invaluable and by the very nature of their work they should be chosen from among the bravest of the brave.  Most of our military medals and other decorations are gained by these chaps for fearlessly carrying on under fire and traversing barrages etc.  They are usually exempt from all fatigues and a portion of the drill they hate so much and in action, wear a red brassard.  They fancy themselves very much.  To tell an outsider that they are "carrying despatches" is to state a very proud fact.  An old overturned "Tank" in rear of our lines is a great draw for Fritz's shells.  He expends salvoes on it.  In the heavy barraging the smell of picric acid becomes very intense and fills the nostrils.  Signallers jargon ["Hullo: Is that Toc Pip? Test Emma Ac. R.Don Right o OK"!]  Runners guided in the new people relieving and had a quick entry.  The journey exhausted many of the new men coming in and they fell in the mud.  Two had to be dug out. Early in the evening a man came dashing over our parapet from No Mans Land and jumped into our trench. The sentry nearly had 6 inches of steel into him before he could say that he was an Engineer officer who was plotting out a new sap to the left of the Maze.  Our rations have been coming up in sandbags and arrive sodden with the wet.  No water having come up tonight I arranged for some men to go out with petrol tins just about dawn and collect water from the shell holes. Pte. Fraser got a bullet through the brain and would probably die before reaching the M.O. Hard work getting stretcher along the trenches.  Runners all perch at steps of this dugout &ndash; their talk is very funny.  What experiences some of them have had.  Gallipoli Lemnos Egypt France and hard times and bloody in all of them.  One chap said "My mother would cry blood tears if she could see me now.  Wet sox and wet skin and been so for days.  Very delicate at home pleurisy but was never better than at present.  At 10 pm went out to see how relief was going.  Poor wet boys struggling along dead beat lacking strength to pull one foot after another.  Done to death my heart bled for them. I am certain some will drop on the road.</p>
