<p class="page" id="a3361071">[Page 71]</p>
<p>In Action. (Maze &amp; Bayonet tr. Flers)  21/11/16 the fellow with the monocle is one of the best and for decent chaps you would have to go a long way to find better than these English officers once you know them.  Having a suspicion that Fritz had started a new trench in front of our right I went up to have a look at it.  Found the trenches much improved by the chaps digging.  Particularly in the sap down to the terrace there a party had much improved it by knocking in the sides and covering over a lot of things that formed the bottom of it.  Shrewdly suspect we would find many dead men hereabouts.  Two lying up on the parados.  One in his sheepskin vest lay face downwards.  Slightly bald on top I arranged to have some dirt thrown over him.  At the entrance to this Maze it would be an easy matter for any one to walk straight on towards the hostile trenches despite our bomb stops.  Memo:- To get a Stop! Look! Listen! Board put up here.  Continuing found the boys all happy (quite a contrast to when the weather was bad) and working away improving things.  Now and then a pair of legs sticking out denoted someone buried.  Rounding a corner we saw a funny sight.  A fog which concealed objects 100 yards off enabled some movement in No Mans Land and lying down beside a dead German just as if he were kissing him was one of our lads.  He was methodically rifling the dead man.  All he found was a gas mask and greatly bewailed the fact that he was "too ripe" to permit going through the inside pockets.  (Reminds me of an incident at Pozieres. A dead man had a belt on him but was much bloated.  The boys hesitated to undo or cut the belt but eventually compromised by letting the gas out by puncturing the stomach and then undoing the buckle).  One of our dead boys lay on his back on the other side his glazed eyes looking up to the sky and a wound in the throat being the fount of a purple stream down his clothes.  The ground all round here, as we stood and quietly looked round under cover of the fog was one churned up mass of shell holes &ndash; not a blade of grass in sight.  Some trench wire out in front of Bayonet trench.</p>
