<p class="page" id="a3361019">[Page 19]</p>
<p>7/10/16 some appear to be fired from No Mans Land.  Went right along the line past muffled sentries and sleeping men.  Many of them sitting up wrapped in greatcoats with heads bowed on chests.  A hard life.  The engineering work done was unsatisfactory in centre coy., and on the left the material failed to reach its destination.  The difficulties of getting heavy material over muddy wet ground in the dark are great and stuff gets taken to the wrong place and so on. Sanctuary Wood is well knocked about and so are all the trenches on that flank.  No Mans Land is a desolation of mud churned up earth , gaunt broken trees and shell holes full of water.  Dawn had already commenced to break when we left the firing line and started to progress homewards.  China Wall is an immense long wall of sandbags well named.  CO. had left when I got back and took over.  The people on our right captured a German this morning.  He had been firing flares in No Mans Land and some of our chaps slipped out and after bayoneting his arm made him prisoner.  Caked with mud he proved surly and refused  Bilpin's proffered cigarettes and hot coffee and roused feelings of regret at not finishing him off.  This place is extremely quiet now and yet no sector is so hot when things are doing.  Every inch of ground is historic and drenched with British and German blood.  Just outside our dugout door are graves and well filled little cemeteries full of white crosses abound.  Spotted a batch of graves clustering around a shrine further back the other day &ndash; rather an appropriate spot.  Repairing our front line the other day [Gill's?] men found a body just under the duckboard and digging deeper found another duckboard with yet another dead man beneath it.  "Strafing" commences early in real earnest and we commence preparation for local hates and unpleasantries.  Good mail last night and Effie sent wattle blossom from the loveliest river in the world.  Quiet evening yarning with the Artillery liason officer and turned in to bed at about 8.45 pm.  Pioneers pumping the water out of chilly mildewed dripping dugout.</p>
