<p class="page" id="a3361066">[Page 66]</p>
<p>In Action Flers  19/11/16  Awoke in the small hours of the morning after a snatch of sleep and despatched our intelligence report to B.H.Q.  One of our patrols had a man hit and in the face of all practice the Corporal went in to get assistance for him.  The Corporal is now missing and must have walked straight into the German lines near the maze.  He may have managed to get into their trench alive.  Went out just before dawn to the terrace and found the trenches in a shocking condition.  The feet sink in at every step and one needs to be strong to get along.  At times I sunk waist deep in the mud and cold water.  Every time one puts a hand out it is felt to be nearly frozen by contact with the frozen or thawing ground.  About 10 we had a little excitement when a man burst in and reported that the Huns were only 20 yards in front of us and digging hard.  Someone else reported seeing them at work and looking across at us.  The latter part proved true but the other was much exaggerated it being the same rough 100 yards away that we have been cognisant of all along.  Put extra men on sniping hard at this work and also Lewis gunners.  Considering the desirability of applying a few Stokes mortar bombs and sent the mortar officer down to take his angles and targets.  An officer of the Lancs relieving us on 21st arrived and went round the line.  He and an artillery liaison officer who arrived later were quite exhausted by their travels.  At about 1.30 pm a pleasant faced English boy officer arrived with proposals to blow Fritz about with 60 lb bombs.  We evacuated portions of our trench to let him get to work and he "dinged" the people opposite quite well and knocked a lot of their work about.  In the retaliation the bomb Corporal was wounded in the back.  Otherwise things quiet.  These conditions of active service where telephones cannot be too extensively used, have given rise to a new and very fine product of our Army.  He is the runner.  Picked men from the companies they are used for all sorts of odd jobs.  Carrying messages from Battalion to Coy. H.Q guiding rations to other parties and reliefs.</p>
