<p class="page" id="a8733062">[Page 62]</p>
<p>certain districts through which our line passes, special precautions have been taken for the protection of the troops, and, here possible, alternative positions prepared.</p>
<p>Throughout the period the importance of training the troops has been insisted upon.  At first, one day weekly was devoted to training, as opposed to road-making or work on the defences.  This proportion has gradually risen to four days weekly, excluding one day of rest.</p>
<p>On 9th May, under orders from the War Office, Lieutenant-General G. F. Milne, C.B., D.S.O., succeeded Lieutenant-General Sir Bryan Mahon, K.C.V.O., C.B., D.S.O., in command of the Salonica Army.  General Mahon sailed on the same date to take up command of the western frontier force in Egypt.</p>
<p>10. In Egypt, during the month of May, there was no operation to record.  Intelligence received early in the month showed that the Turks had materially increased their numbers in Sinai, doubtless with the view of detaining troops in Egypt.  The enemy's main concentrations were too far away for me to strike at them, and I was in hopes that he might be induced to cross the barrier of hills which extends from north to south some 60 miles from the Canal.  He would then have been exposed to attack with the defiles behind him.  However, he made no such advance, and, during the hot weather in the middle of May, there were indications that he was drawing in his advanced posts.  On the 8th and 21st May, enemy aircraft attacked Port Said with bombs, doing no material damage.  On the first occasion, three civilians were wounded; on the second, two civilians were killed, five soldiers and thirteen civilians were wounded.  In each case the attack was answered by prompt and successful retaliation by the Royal Flying Corps.  In all sections of the eastern front reconnaissances were frequent, particularly in No. 3 section, to which were now allotted three brigades of the Anzac Mounted Division.  During the month the Mahemdia-Romani district has been occupied in some force, and at a conference, held on the 17th May, at which General Lawrence, commanding No. 3 section, was present, further decisions regarding the occupation of the Qatia district were arrived at.</p>
<p>During the month several successful reconnaissances to the east were made by the Anzac Mounted Division, which proved itself a unit upon which I could absolutely depend to display energy, resource, and endurance.  On the 8th May, starting early from Oghratina, the 2nd Light Horse Brigade reconnoitred to Bir el Abd, with patrols pushed out to Hod Salmana.  On the 16th May, a day of intense heat, the same brigade, starting from Hod el Sagia, 5 miles E.S.E. of Qatia, reached Hod el Bayud, 15 miles on in the same direction, at 7 a.m.  Camels and dismounted men were seen making off in a north-easterly direction.  The enemy's camp was destroyed, and one prisoner, 36 camels and a quantity of ammunition were brought in.  The reconnaissance returned to Qatia, having covered 60 miles in thirty hours. During this time the Canterbury Mounted Rifles went out to Bir Abu Afein, covering 40 miles in thirty hours.</p>
<p>On the 18th May, a very successful bombardment of El Arish from the sea and the air was carried out.  A sloop and two monitors of His Majesty's Navy bombarded the town, reducing the fort S.W. of the town to ruins, and damaging the aerodrome.  The seaplanes of the Royal Naval Air Service then attacked with bombs, being followed later by six machines of the Royal Flying Corps, who had orders to attack any enemy aircraft that appeared, and to bomb the enemy's camp and troops.  The camps were effectively bombed, and three bombs exploded in the middle of a body of 1,000 men, who were on the march south of the town.  A close reconnaissance of El Arish from the air was made, and many valuable photographs taken at the same time.  All ships and aircraft returned safely.  On 22nd May, the Royal Flying Corps carried out a highly effective bombardment of all enemy camps on a 45-mile front roughly parallel to the Canal, during which severe damage</p>
