<p class="page" id="a8733058">[Page 58]</p>
<p>20 miles west of Sollum.  On 23rd April an armoured car reconnaissance from Sollum discovered and brought in 140,000 rounds of small arms ammunition from a concealed depot.  On the 30th April a further 20,000 rounds were discovered and brought in to Sollum.  During this month, also, four prisoners, including a Turkish officer, were captured 60 miles west of Minia, and two small camel convoys were captured near El Alamein.  The light car patrols were responsible for all these captures.</p>
<p>7. During the month of April reconnaissance was active all along the Eastern Front, with the result that by the middle of the month all water supplies of any importance within 30 miles of the Canal were patrolled by our troops, and mobile columns were ready to go out and deal with enemy parties approaching them, or, in the event of serious threat, to demolish the rock cisterns.  In No. 1 Section, on 20th April, a patrol from Bir Mabeiuk came in contact with an enemy patrol, 50 strong, on the sand hills near the mouth of the Wadi Hamatha, some 18 miles W.S.W. of Suez.  A squadron and 50 rifles endeavoured to cut the enemy off, but he at once retired and scattered among the hills.  Our casualties were two men killed.  On 23rd April and the following days four columns, each composed of mounted troops and infantry, carried out reconnaissances of the approaches from the west to Ain Sudr and Sudr El Heitan.  The columns returned to their respective posts on 26th April.</p>
<p>In No. 2 Section, on 27th March, the 2nd Australian and New Zealand Army Corps came into existence on the departure of the 1st Australian and New Zealand Army Corps to France.  The Corps was commanded by Lieutenant-General Sir Alexander Godley, K.C.M.G., C.B., and consisted of the 4th Australian Division, commanded by Major-General Sir H. V. Cox, K.C.M.G., C.B., C.S.I., the 5th Australian Division, commanded by Major-General Hon. J. MacCay, V.D., and the Anzac Mounted Division, commanded by Major-General H. G. Chauvel, C.B., C.M.G. (attached).  In this section, the wells at Moiya Harab and Wadi Um Muksheib having been brought into the regular patrolling area, a very successful reconnaissance to Jifjaffa was carried out between 11th and 15th April.  The troops for this enterprise were a squadron of the 9th Australian Light Horse Regiment, accompanied by a detachment of Bikanir Camel Corps, and commanded by Major Scott, D.S.O., 9th Australian Light Horse.  The objective was 52 miles from the starting point, and a jumping-off place for the attack, 8 miles south-west of the objective, was reached at 2.30 a.m. on 13th April.  From here an attack was launched by these troops upon the enemy's position at 9 a.m. The enemy, cut off in their attempted retreat by the right flanking party of the attack, stood at bay on one of the hills above the village, and lost six men killed and five wounded before surrendering.  One Austrian lieutenant of engineers and 33 other prisoners were captured, our own casualties being one man and one horse killed.  The destruction of the enemy's camp was thoroughly carried out, a quantity of correspondence was taken, and the elaborate well-boring plant, which had been at work for five months, was completely demolished.  The manner in which this operation was carried out was mot creditable, both to the commander on the column and to all ranks composing it.</p>
<p>In conjunction with this reconnaissance, a mounted column was sent out in No. 1 Section to reconnoitre Bir el Giddi and the roads leading east from it.  This force satisfactorily accomplished its mission, and, after an encounter with a hostile patrol, captured unwounded three armed Arabs.</p>
<p>In the Qatia District, where alone there is sufficient water supply to maintain a large body of troops, preliminaries to the accomplishment of our ultimate aim &ndash; the permanent occupation of the well-watered zone radiating 15 miles east and south-east of Qatia &ndash; were steadily pushed on.  On</p>
