<p class="page" id="a8733041">[Page 41]</p>
<p>ridge, and the landscape before them was the country behind the German lines.   Except for a gentle rise somewhat further northward, behind Thiepval, they had reached about the highest point upon the ridge.</p>
<p>The connecting trenches, between Mouquet Farm and the ridge above and behind it, were attacked by the Tasmanians.  The fire was very heavy, and for a moment it looked as if this part of the line and the Queenslanders immediately next to it would not be able to get in.  Officer after officer was hit.  Leading amongst these was a senior captain, a man old for his rank, but one who was known to almost every man in the Force as one of the most striking personalities in Gallipoli.  He had two sons in the Australian Force, officers practically of his own rank.  He was one of the first men on to the Anzac beach, and was the last Australian who left it.</p>
<p>I had seen him just as he was leaving for the fight some hours before.  He carried no weapon but a walking stick.  "I have never carried anything else into action," he said, "and I am not going to begin now."  He was ill with rheumatism, and looked it, and the doctor had advised that he ought not to be with his company.  But he came back to them that evening for the fight, and one could see that it made a world of difference to them.  He was a man whom his own men swore by.  Personally, one breathed more easily knowing that he was with them.  It would be his last big fight, he told me.</p>
<p>Halfway through that charge, in the thick of the whirl of it, he was seen standing leaning heavily upon his stick.  It was touch and go at the moment whether the trench was won or lost. "Are you hit, sir?" asked several around him.  Then they noticed a gash in his leg, and the blood running from it, and he seemed to be hit through the chest as well.  "I will reach that trench if the boys do," he said.  "Have no fear of that, sir." was the answer.  A sergeant asked him for his stick.  Then, with the voice of a big man, like his officer, the sergeant shouted and waved the stick, and took the men on.  Half dark, his figure was not unlike that of his commander.  They made one further rush, and were into the trench.</p>
<p>They were utterly isolated in the trench when they reached it.  A German machine gun was firing between them and the trench they had come from.  There was barbed wire in front of it.  When they tried to force a way with bombs up the trench to the gun, German bombers in craters behind the trench showered bombs on to them.  Then a sergeant crawled out between the wire and the machine gun &ndash; crawled on his stomach right up to the gun, and shot the gunner with his revolver.  "I've killed three of them," he said, as he crawled back.  Presently a shell fell on him, and shattered him.  But our bombers crept out into craters behind the trench also and bombed the German bombers out of their shelters.  That opened the way along the trench, and they found the three machine gunners shot, as the sergeant had said.  The Tasmanians went swiftly along the trench after that, and presently saw a row of good Australian heads in a sap well in front of them.  There went up a cheer.  Other German guardsmen who had been lying in craters in front of the trench and a scrap of trench beyond heard the cheering.  Seeing that there were Australians on both sides of them, they stumbled to their feet and threw up their hands.  They were marched off to the rear, and the Tasmanians joined up with the Queenslanders.</p>
<p>So the centre was joined to the left.  On the right it was uncertain whether it was joined or not.  There was a line of trench to be seen on that side running back towards the German lines.  It was merely a more regular line of mud amongst the irregular mud-heaps of the craters; but there were the heads of men looking out from it, so, clearly, it was a trench.  As the light grew they could make out men leaning on their arms and elbows looking over the parapet.  Every available glass was turned on them, but it was too dark still to see if they were Australians.  Two scouts were sent forward, creeping from hole to</p>
