Worgret Camp 
Wareham Dorset 
14-11-17
My Dear Mother. It is nearly true that I set to work and wrote a few more letters. I received another from you yesterday, the one with Photos enclosed. I fancy that I told you in a previous letter that I had recv?d a letter from Mrs. Barker telling me that the parcel had been sent. I daresay that I will receive it someday I hope so The Parcel with Tobacco etc has never come to light, but it may reach me someday. There must be hundreds of Parcels at Head Qrs. that are waiting to be sent on. I am glad to hear that my letter which you mention caused so much interest, but I could have said much that possibly would not have appealed to any man who was championing the cause of Conscription for like the majority of the Boys here I am very much against it. I would have voted for it willingly enough had it been brought before the Public at the commencement of the war but they woke up too late. The result of the Soldiers Ballot was never declared, in fact the voting was suddenly suspended and never resumed. I think that the Authorities realised that it was no use, the boys were so set against it and the result at home certainly met with their approval England has just begun to realise that something must be done and you will no doubt read much in the papers of parks being ploughed up for potatoes etc. and of vacant Building allottments being placed under vegetables by enthusiastic householders, who want to help the country but you will not read of the vacant farm lands owned by rich men, who do not want the land except for Breeding rabbitts and Pheasants you will not read of the miserable failures that these aforementioned enthusiasts make they expect to just dig the land, put the seed spuds, cabbages or what ever class of veg. they fancy in and then nature must do the rest. They will have done their bit poor fools. they dont know what they're doing, but they fancy they do. I saw plenty of plots of land being prepared. I also saw a good many with cabbages, etc, yellow shrivelled up Plants that would not appeal to a decent pig. There will be thousands of these plots. Then some other idiot has pointed out that if the householders, in Suburban London each keep a pig in their backyard or garden, that 50,000 Pigs will be