one of us from each room being allowed out in the town to buy for the others. We soon saw we were getting double the quantity of everything for our money. They also killed a bullock and we actually had meat twice this day. What a change. After this a bullock was killed every other day. The cost of a bath was reduced from 2 piastres to  piastre, and generally all round there was a vast improvement. We were allowed out in the parade grounds all day instead of a limited time. All this made our life much happier. There were also 3 carpenters employed making tables and stools for the rooms. On July 26th we got heard a rumour that there would be no more work for us, but on the morrow next day this was soon put out of the question, for we went out on the roads as usual, but there was very little work done, the sentries not troubling whether we worked or not. That evening (27th) our officers sent us a box of foodstuff, a few tins of jam, sardines and some medicine. Although the quantity being was small for so many it was extremely acceptable. A clergyman at Constantinople sent this to the officers.
On July 29th while at work two of the Russians employed blasting were badly injured through a charge of powder going off while they were ramming it in. The following day nobody went to work, our officers sent us up 10 piastres per man. We were all just about broke. August 1st a great number of Turkish recruits arrive. They camped outside the mosque close to us. They were all about middle aged. One thing we were surprised at was when ever we were going or returning from work the populace never showed any signs of hate against us, only the children who made signs of cutting our throats, we did not take any notice of that as they were only children. On August 2nd we received a big batch of letters; some of us getting as many as 18. All old letters, some written long before we were captured. August 3rd we again have rumours that there is to be no more work. In the afternoon we watch some strange dancing by the Turkish Recruits. Our beds arrive but are not served out. The following day they give us our beds, a small mattress filled with grass. We feel the benefit after lying on the hard floor. The night of August 5th was very exciting. We had all turned in and most of us asleep when we heard the music of a band approaching and at intervals great cheering. They came close until they had surrounded our buildings. The guard were all turned out and fully armed. Things did not look at all good for us but after half an hour all the mob cleared away and all was quiet again. We never knew the cause of this but it was supposed to be a demonstration over the fall of Warsaw. August 6th we get a new suit of clothes. It is of very poor quality, but still acceptable as we had practically no clothing.
August 7th Everybody was got on the move early. We could see by the preparations that some big official was coming to visit the establishment. About 10 a.m. two carts arrived full up