Selifkeh which runs very close to the beach) After a good rest on the sand enjoying the cool sea breeze we decided to find this creek near the old ruins which our Greek friend had recommended us to find, as there was good hiding. So we started to walk along just in from the beach so that we would leave no marks. We had to go very cautiously as we had been warned that the beach was patrolled by Turkish soldiers so often. However about nidnight we came on the old ruins a few stone pillars standing about 30 feet high the remainder being just a mass of broken stone. We then knew we could not be far off the creek where we intended making our headquarters. About 1 p.m. we came to the creek. About 300 yards from the beach there was plenty of underground for hiding and half a dozen saplings which we thought would come in to make a raft, it being our intention, if unable to sight a ship to make a raft, put to sea at night in the hopes of being picked up. We were only 60 from the island of Cyprus and we heard that our patrol ships frequently came in close to that part of the coast. However we were not satisfied to stop where we were. We wanted to see if there was anything better on the other side of the creek. We were making our way out towards the beach when two armed sentries passed just in front of us. We fell down behind a bush, and were not seen. We kept our eyes on these sentries and saw them cross over the entrance of this creek on what appeared to be a bridge, but next day we could see that the entrance of this creek was blocked across with stones. The water from the creek filtered through these stones into the sea, so farming a path across.
After seeing these two sentries we decided to go back to where we first struck the creek. We soon found a good hiding place right on the edge of the creek. From here we looked out through the reeds down the creek and out to sea. When daylight came we were looking out when we saw two Turkish Soldiers. One was having a bath and the other was praying (the Mahommedens are very strict on their prayers night and morning) Their rifles were lying on the ground. We knew then that this part of the beach must be strictly guarded. We spent the day resting. About 8 p.m. we started to cut the small trees down to make a raft. After about an hours hard work with a saw about 1 foot long, we managed to cut one of the trees through and lower it down without making much noise. The second one was larger and took about two hours. As we were carefully lowering it down it took charge of us and fell into the water making a great splash. We remained very quiet for some time. Nobody seemed to be about, so we hauled it under cover. We thought we had done a fair nights work so lay down to sleep. In the morning we cut the branches off the two trees it being our intention to make bundles of the branches to tie under the raft to make it more buoyant. That night we cut down three small trees in the same manner as the night before. The following day we cut the branches off