On Nov. 8th we were visited by There two German officers who had Iron Crosses. They swaggered about with a true German Strut and spoke to one French prisoner only, of great German Victories everywhere. We know this was bluff and that these victories were "made in Germany". 
Thirty three (33) new prisoners came just out of hospital. They gave us a letter from Lieut. Commander Cochrane of the Submarine E 7 from Angora, which contained the glad tidings that a large amount of under clothings- very needful- and 200:0:0 even more needful, had been allotted for distribution amongst us prisoners. The clothing came on 16th but was not given out till the 25th. Snow fell on that date and the clothing, as issued, was found to be quite insufficient in quantity and quality. However it was a case of  a suit being better than nothing at a time when the smaller mercies were most thankfully received. (See note on official British issue of clothing to Turks and contrast the same; put in same as foot note. 2 blankets- 2 white cotton shirts- 2 towels (also one bath towel 2 pair boots- 2 flanel vests- 2 handkerchiefs one fez- 2 jackets- trousers repaired or replaced free also Suttringes to lie on)
Side note: Contrast bet. Turkish British treatment of prisoners.
When I sat shivering and cold I often thought of my warm comfy clothes left at Malta awaiting my return. Up to now we had been without tobacco for a long while, when quite unexpectedly the Turkish sentries offered us Baccy on tick. This action led us to believe that the 200 must be near at hand, otherwise they wouldn't have allowed us to run up accounts. We were very wet, cold and miserable and the smoke was "O.K." Surely enough the Turk took little risk, but big profits because to say the A.E 2 crew received 5:10:0 each from the Australian O.C. on London. Up to this time there was no Red Cross to "mother" us, but the O.C. proved a good step-father to the AE 2 lads. We made this small amount stretch out as far as we could amongst our immediate pals, because it was not till December 8th that the promised 200 was divided between the 150 prisoners. The prisoners were chiefly sailors from the British submarines E 15, E 7, Aust AE 2. French submarines Turquoise: Marriott, Sapphire, and soldiers from Gallipoli, Australian and British. (The French name their submarines, and do not number them as we do ours. 
Also see notes on the fates of Concerning these submarines I may mention that
Side note see written a/cs of AE1, AE 2, E 14
E. 15. After running aground the Captain Lieut. Commander Brodie finding it impossible to get her off was about to open the conning tower hatch and look out. He stopped to light a cigarette in the conning tower and just at this moment about 6" shell came through cutting his body in two, the lower portion falling back into the boat. This was the British Submarine which ran aground near the Forts of