a very poor finish to our Xmas holiday.
This episode strengthened our resolve to escape. Our temper was often at the breaking point, through the constant jibes and refined cruelty they subjected us to. They tried in every way possible to break our spirits. It was only the hope of escaping that kept us up at all during that wretched persecution which lasted nearly five months from Oct 17 to April 18 whilst we were collecting material for our collapsible boat. No doubt the German task-masters thought their slave driving each day would leave us little strength or inclination when we were locked up for the night to do anything else but sleep. But we worked on past midnight very often and before sleeping we hid the stuff in a cave we dug to avoid detection.
Our feelings can be better imagined than described when everything was ready. The suspense of the boat being discovered and the knowledge of which awaited us if we failed was nerve wracking. But at last the long prayed for chance came on 29th April, and we resolved to put the result of our five month secret, midnight toil to the test. The failure of my first attempt and the consequent punishment only made me more desperate and I secretly determined that if I were caught again and brought back, death in any shape was better than a continuance of the slavery and degradation of the last six months. There seemed to be no end to the war. In fact it seemed to be getting further away. It was as well to attempt an escape as die of fever if we remained in the Camp.
Note:- on Gelebek.:- Of all the different camps I have been in Gelebek was by far the worst both for work food and fever. All these camps became worse as time went on, because of the shortage of food and the great increase of prices of local grown stuff owning to the Turkish notes, depreciating in value. Early in 1918 it was possible to sell a Turkish sovereign for 6:10:0 in notes. Of course we were always paid in notes and money coming from England was always paid to us in notes. At the end of 1916 silver went completely out of circulation. The Turkish government printed notes as low as 2d which I suppose is a record. The Turkish livre i.c. is worth 16/8 in normal times.