
The next day the 5th March the battalion had to supply Divisional fatigues & I was detailed with twenty nine others for work on the canal. These duties were to last a week so had to roll up all of our kit &  take our rifle equipment then set out to take over our duties. On arriving at the eastern side of the canal we found our home was to be in sand bag dug outs big enough for two or three men. our duties were to pull the punt across the canal which was worked by two chains one on each side of the punt the chains being attached to each side of the canal. The party was split into three having to work in shifts of four hours on duty & eight hours off. This work was only carried out when the pontoon was not across for then the traffic had to use the punt. There were also a great number of natives who used the punt & we made good use of them making them pull the punt across. These natives were engaged on road making & drivers of camel trains for the military their duties taking them backwards & forwards across the canal. During the stay there I saw quite a number of Troopships & Lines going up & down the canal especially of a night. I also saw two French gun boats the "Pistolet" & the "Fromde" a British monotor & several other naval craft & launches. This part of the canal was extremely busy with native boats which were used to carry stone for road making, water & supplies for the troops. During the time here we lived mostly in swimming attire having plenty of good food for the Army Service Corps ration dump was close by which was guarded by  boys of my own company, so we adopted other means of procuring rations than being issued with them & midnight visits to the dump were very frequent. Plenty of fresh water was also available for the pumping station was only a few yards away from the camp & also the terminus of the light railway. This railway which was a minature arrangement was pulled by motor engines being used to take supplies, water & ammunition about eight miles out to the troops who were doing out post duties in the desert. our duties on the canal came to an end on the 12th of March none of us liking the idea of returning to camp routine after having such a good time but of course orders had to be obeyed so we returned to camp that night & settled down. On the 14th March we had musketry on the minature range after which the battalion was taken for a route march out along the road towards rail head in the morning & during the afternoon the troops were all inoculated. At 10 AM on the 15th March the battalion was fell in, the Brigade being formed up on the parade ground for a farewell inspection by General Seuval the ex Divisional commander who was then in charge of the 1st Anzac Mounted Division. During the inspection the inoculation of the previous day began to take effect on the troops for the hest was well over a hundred degrees in the shade. At least a quarter of the Brigade fainted or went out to it & by the time the inspection was completed the ranks were very thin. Next day things became quiet gain the company having more musketry in the morning & that afternoon I was detailed for the first guard since leaving Sydney the guard dismounting the following afternoon. During the next few days things remained very quiet with only the usual camp routine orders. The morning of the 19th March broke with a stir in camp for we had an early reveille having to get our camp & lines cleaned up as we were told the Prince of Wales & General Birdwood were to inspect the Division & lines that day. After falling in & waiting about till nearly midday the prince arrived on a beautiful black charger accompanied by an army of heads & military police. He looked quite a boy & when passing our lines the troops were