July 11th This morning we left Neuve Eglise for Ballieul there entrained for where rumour said to be the Somme region. We travelled through Hazebrouk St Pol to Doullens where we left train. This is France in reality we are not sorry to have left Flanders. Rolling hills, woods etc. take the place of flat cultivation paddocks. 
July 12th Last night we marched from 6 pm until 2 am to Sur Champs a distance of about 18 miles (via St Ouen).
July 13th March from Sur Champs to Olencourt Chateau (Vignacourt) where we bivouac for the night 8 miles. Here we are in sight of Amiens the cathedral of which we can see plainly.
July 14th March from Vignacourt to Allonville about 10 miles. We are about 5 miles from Amiens. The country here is fine but of a limestone formation broad acres of cultivation grazing paddocks with many woods are the usual. We have now reached within 15 miles of the line where the advance lately took place.
July 17th After a couple of days rest we have left Allonville in the direction of Albert have now arrived at Vadencourt a march of about 9 miles.
July 20th Lately we have been lectured etc as to our duty on the field we were all looking forward to some real work. It has since transpired that the 3rd Field Amb are to work the Division in the field we have moved to a rest Station at Warloy, about 10 kilos from Albert 15 ? 20 from the line. The Inf have been issued with distinguishing badges have been moved forward. Everything looks as though the 1st Aust Div have some tough work in front of them.
July 21st Orders for "B" Section to stand by be ready to move to the line in a moments notice. An attack is expected to shortly take place we have everything prepared re dressings accommodation. We plainly hear terrific bombardments see the reflection of the explosions. 
July 26th For the last four days we have been in action in a most terrific battle the struggle for Poziers which has at last been captured after heavy casualties. On the evening of 22nd we were ordered to the front. We (no 12 Squad, I) reached Albert about midnight
 22 23 24 25 26]