April 21st Good Friday
April 25th Anzac Day Still at Sailly sur la Lys running the laundry. Lately it has been raining heavily now the courtyard is half submerged. 
April 26th Sent off to the trenches to Eton Hall about four hundred yards behind the front line. Conditions A1. Fleurbaix section 
April 27th At Eton Hall. Big bombardment at 11 pm of the Enemy trenches positions. Expected Gas attack.
April 28th Return to A.D.S.
April 29th Return to Laundry
 News that Townsend has surrendered posted in German trenches. Confirmed next morning 
30th Visit town of Estaires on River Lys. While there a shell burst in the town but no damage resulted.
May 1st Germans shell Station of Bac St Maur with result of complete exodus of all the people general disarrangement of work in Laundry. No damage. 
May 3rd Trenches again. Battalions change over without one casualty. Visit front line examine opposite trenches through periscope.
May 5th Bombardment of Bac St Maur 2nd
May 14th During the past nine days things have been quiet spring has been gradually putting the finishing touches of beauty on the fields trees. The Australian 20th Batt seem to have lost some machine guns mortars through a bogus gas attack officers are accused of leaving their posts. Our runs to the trenches have increased now we are down to 24 on 48 hours off. Experience two of our shells premature exploding to close to be comfortable.

May 19th Retire to Rest Camp at Doulieu. It appears that the brigade does one month on duty in the trenches two battalions at a time. For this month things have been on our sector. (Fleurbaix ? Fromelles) very quiet having only three or four casualties per night. While at Laundry I had good chance of seeing the temperaments of the French women. They are extremists when things run smoothly, even though at any moment their homes may be shelled they are very happy but when they hear a shell en route for an object perhaps a mile away they become hysterical. They are as brave as their men at Verdun work willingly at all things even to a mile or so behind the front lines. (In front of our guns)