

warned to be on the alert.

Reports came from Suvla way that the Turks in the trenches have been circulated with the news that the Germans will be down to help them in a few weeks. Ah! me, any old lie to keep them going. I think the Turk is about tumbling to the German’s chicanery as a liar now – the deserters we have all proclaim that they don’t believe half what the Germans tell them. And no wonder.

We held a demonstration this morning along the whole line from Lone Pine to Chocolate Hill. Its object was to draw the enemy’s fire, gain knowledge of his strength & any of his new positions. It was an utter failure – it was too mild & spasmodic & the "canny" Turk kept as quiet as a mouse.

War Office Telegram 14/10/15 (inter alia) – Bulgarian forces have crossed the Serbian frontier & are attacking the Serbians north & south of the Sofia-Neck railway. The Serbians are fighting desperately with the troops of Gen. Mackensen which crossed the Danube at Belgrade & to the east near Semendria. Our allies claim to have inflicted serious losses on the enemy.

M. Viviani, the French Premier, in the Chamber yesterday, made a sympathetic reference to Roumania & foreshadowed energetic military action on the part of the Allies including Russia, for the purpose of ensuring respect for the treaty of Bucharest.

Our Athens correspondent sends a summary of a great speech wh M. Venizelos delivered in the Greek Chamber on Monday. His main point was that apart altogether from her obligations to Serbia it was essential that Greece should at once intervene in order to safeguard her territories from Bulgarian aggression.

The Bulgarian Minister in London has been handed his passport.

Russian victories continue.

W.O. Telegram Oct. 15 (inter alia): M. Delcasse has resigned. M. Viviani, the French Premier, stated that he had done so for reasons of health. The French public is not altogether satisfied with the Premier’s statement on the Balkan question & a more detailed explanation is awaited in some quarters.

Though the Serbians are hard pressed by a double invasion they appear to be holding up the Germanic forces wh crossed the Danube & to have inflicted a check on the Bulgarians.

W.O. Telegram Oct. 16 (inter alia) The French Premier declared in the Senate yesterday that he had reason to believe they would not remain aloof from the Allies


