 Copy of letter received by Mr T W Keele, a Commissioner of the Sydney Harbour Trust, from Major-General Holmes. 
 21st January, 1917 
 Dear Mr Keele, 
 Thank you very much for your interesting letter of November. I found it most informative, especially that part relating to the results of the Referendum & the tactics adopted by the "Nosers" to influence the Women Vote. I have sent the letter on to Sir William Birdwood as the opinion of one of our thinking men in Sydney. He & I often discuss the result of the Referendum Voting on the future of Recruiting & reinforcements for our Division now in the Field & I am sure Sir William will be glad to read what you have written. 
 What awful "bosh" to tell women if they vote "Yes" they are sending another woman's son or husband to his grave . . . . . 
 Has this view ever been put to them. The Divisions already here have a certain length of the front to hold. The weather is severe & war conditions are otherwise intensely strenuous, therefore wastage of personnel is great. We are often at our wits end to know more to do to check this wastage by preventing evacuations from the front line. Just now trench feet & bronchial affections are a great trouble. If we can take men out of the front trenches as soon as first signs of trouble appear & treat them we can save them, but we must first have men to take their places. If they can be rested they go back in a few days; if they have to be left in longer they must in a short time be evacuated. Then again, if our battalions are kept up to strength we can relieve Companies in the front line more frequently & bring them back out of the mud & slush to comfortable warm huts where they can get hot food, dry clothes, particularly socks, & good sound sleep - so that every additional man who comes now  saves  another woman's son or brother or husband now at the front. It is not a question of forming new units, but sending sufficient men to help those already here by keeping the ranks of existing units reasonably full. 