  
 available french leave would be taken to get home or into town which ever the case may be. our stay in this camp lasted nearly a month by which time we were beginning to feel something like soldiers or would be's every man knowing his right foot from the left. On the 15th September 1915 the whole of the 4th Depot Battalion was formed up   & marched to Liverpool camp being put into tents on Meningitis Hill at the far end near the Light Horse my company then being transferred as the 7th Reinforcement of the 18th Battalion. From this on we began to dabble in the advanced stages of recruiting which of course pleased all hands. By this time the weather was beginning to get on the warm side so the troops used to spend their spare time in swimming in the Georges river which was close by. We received our issue of uniforms on the 22nd of October 1915  & it was then that we all felt dinkum soldiers everyone being anxious to get leave into town so as to be seen in khaki. Six days later the Reinforcement started on elementry musketry  & rifle exercises, the following day 29 October being issued with equipment. This was a sight for sore eyes for each man was given a pack full of straps, pouches, etc  & most of the boys had not seen them before so needed tuition in the assembling of the gear but after a day or two everybody was efficient in this occupation. On the 30th of October the Reinforcement was paraded and marched to Liverpool station where we entrained for Sydney, when on reaching town the troops were put into special Trams  & taken to Roseberry Race Course, which was to be our place of abode during the few days on rifle shooting at the Long Bay Range. Whilst here the boys were able to get home each night  & during the few days there we went through all target practices in which I managed to get a very fair average. our stay lasted on above duties for a few days returning to Liverpool on the 3rd of November. next day the 4th the Reinforcement was paraded  & issued with over sea kits  & then sent on final leave which terminated on the 18th. Leave was mostly spent at home  & going round seeing relations  & friends returning to camp on the night of the 18th in good order. Towards the end of the next week things started to get busy for the troops declared war on the military police which ended in a victory for the troops. The police tents  & belongings being burned  & the articles that would not burn were placed to rest in the river close by. On the 29th November the troops had to fall in with all their gear  & marched to Casula Camp with Reinforcements of the 19th  & 20th Battalions. Casula Camp at that time was only a raw recruit camp for by this time we kidded ourselves full blown soldiers. On entering the camp it was found that the Military Police had command of the recruits so the first thing our Reinforcements did, on being dismissed, was to clear the objectionables (police) out of the way, opening the camp for all hands. This action was much appreciated, appearing real heroes in the eyes of the marmalades who occupied the camp. From then on till we left we were not troubled with much drill being more often out of camp than in it unless a special parade or inspection was ordered for no one was anxious to miss getting away when the time for departure arrived. Towards the end of December our Reinforcement was told that we would be leaving before Xmas so everyone busied themselves preparing for their departure. On the 21st December we had an inspection  & were told we would be leaving camp for the boat during the early hours of the 23rd, so on the 22nd every one took leave of absence, so I went home where I spent most of the day  & after saying Good-bye to all took my departure about midnight leaving, Mother, Brother, & Sisters on Hurstville Railway Station. On reaching Sydney the excitement was intense caused by the boys who were going  away next morning. Special trains were run that night to Liverpool to get the boys into camp who were going away  & they were all merry  & bright. On reaching Liverpool the motor cars  & taxi cabs were 