  
 To the reader of this book. In the following pages I have endeavoured to convey as true to detail as possible the main events of my experience whilst on Active Service with the A.I.F. during the Great War of 1914 - 1918 In attempting to write this record I claim no literary ability; it is purely the effort of an amateur. From the day on which I enlisted I decided  to try and keep a diary of events   & from time to time forwarded my memorandum home for safe keeping. It should be understood that what I have written are the impressions that were made on my individual mind; others who were present   & witnessed the same happening, would quite possibly give a different description. The Sketches included are draw from memory and are intended to give the reader, who did not actually see the War Zone, some idea of a Front Line Trench with its supports   & reserves in Rear. They cannot be supposed to be absolutely accurate as an ordinary Soldier had no opportunity of making a sufficient survey of the land to be able to reproduce a sketch some three or four years later as I have attempted to do now.   In Camp  My first attempt to join the army for active service in the Great War was on Sunday August the Eighth 1915 at Victoria Barracks Sydney, but was rejected for reasons not stated by the examining medical officer. This however only temporarily damped my hopes for a week later I paid a visit to the Board of Health Recruiting Depot at Circular Quay on Monday night 16th of August, where I passed without any trouble, vaccinated   & told to report to Victoria Barrack at 11 AM on 23rd of August 1915 ready to go into camp. On the 23rd of August with chest thrown out I arrived at the Barracks at 11 AM   & after the necessary roll call, was given light refreshments by the Ladies league before moving off. The recruits were formed up about 1 PM 1,023 strong, detailed into parties  & set out for the Central Railway Station via Moore Park  & Cleveland St arriving at the station a little after 2 PM entraining in two special trains  & taken to Liverpool. on disentraining at Liverpool the party was formed up in fours and set out on the march. As the column passed the camp at Liverpool the troops from that camp lined the road greeting us with cheers  & shouts of "marmalade" which was all taken good humouredly. The march ended at Holdsworthy where the party was split up, alloted to tents  & companies myself being detailed to "C" Company "4th" Depot Battalion, this being the first Depot Battalion at Holdsworthy. Before settling down that night each man had to draw three blankets, eating utensils, rations, etc from the Quartermaster's Store  & after being fixed up all turned  in finding the ground very hard for the first time. From then on our recruiting days started in blue dungarees with white hats  & drill that a great number knew nothing or very little about but progressed favourably as time went on. After parade the first day  & each succeeding day the boys who were in camp would lien the road to wait for the incoming recruits who arrived about 5 PM  & greet them with cheers and the same old cry of "Marmalade". The boys were able to get out of camp at night for if passes were not 