
that eager to have a glimpse of him that things ended in a rush crowding round the visiting group in disorder nothing sensational taking place. The following day the 20th March the battalion had a general kit inspection which was close in every detail, after which we were told that the battalion was to leave for France within twenty four hours. Next morning the camp was awakened by an early reveille and every thing was soon a hustle & bustle preparing for our departure which took place at 2.30 PM the 21st March when we marched back across the canal to East Serapium railway station. We had to wait until 8.30 PM before entraining so during the waiting hours we had tea after which a big fire was lighted with old cases & spare wood. When the fire started to burn properly the battalion assembled round it for a concert which proved a great turn out considering the circumstances & will live for ever in the memories of those who were present. When the train arrived at 8 o'clock we found it consisted of open trucks, the battalion gear being put aboard first then the troops after. The ride lasted about eight hours it being a very cold frosty night & no one enjoyed the ride in the open air & were all pleased when it ended.
Egypt to FranceThe train arrived at Alexandria about 7.30 AM on 22nd March going right down on to the wharf where orders were issued for the troops to disentrain it then being 8 AM. The sun was then shining brightly so all made good use of it to stretch their limbs &  whilst waiting about the troops exchanged their Egyptian money into English silver at the Money Exchange Bureau which was situated on the wharf. our wait on the wharf lasted several hours &  the battalion started to embark about 1.30 PM on the S.S. Grampian (Transport E620) an Imperial troopship which was armed with a six inch Naval gun situated on the aft gun deck. The ship untied &  pulled away from the wharf about 6 PM steaming out of the harbour passing numbers of troopships, hospital boats &  naval craft on the way out. The harbour, which is divided from the sea by a huge breakwater, is a fair size with a big berthing accommodation for large deep sea vessels &  also has a very big coaling stage which is near the entrance. When the ship pulled out into the Meditteranean Sea twelve Vickers machine guns were mounted at different parts of the main deck thus adding more armament to the ship should it be attacked by an enemy submarine. The troops aboard were comprised of Brigade Headquarter staff &  details, the brigade machine gun company &  Trench morter battery &  our battalion less the horse transport which had to go by horse boat. Throughout the voyage everybody was compelled to wear life belts at all times except when actually sleeping then the belts would have to be kept handy. The food was very poor aboard &  not sufficient of it, for the ship had just returned for the Persian Gulf where it had taken Imperial troops &  rations had not been replenished at Alexandria. I was put on ships guard on the 24th March which proved a