
very cold this morning. Mail today Letters from Dad Dick Lillie Ted Forrsberg & mail from Dick we had papers to burn here, our chance of being relieved for a spell looks very rosy 25 Battalion had come to our positions, they are a fine lot of men, Queenslanders, to boot. It looks very much like rain here, which I expect we shall have by tonight. Rations today Bread 1/2 Loaf, small Soap. Bacon jam onions, Tea & sugar, mild water plentiful. We had a few 25 men mingled with us in the trenches to instruct them about different things. Kangaroo Australia day.
13-9-15Still in trenches telling the new Boys a few tales, things were quiet this morning, but our cheeky destroyer sent a few pills at the Turks but soon moved off as the Turkish gun returned compliments, pretty close. We were told that our trip to Limnos Island was postponed endyosly but later were were told to pack up as soon as we were relieved from the trenches. How joyful the Boys are. Rations Bacon Bread & jam tea sugar & flour.
14-9-15last evening just before we left Gallopoli Peninsular there was another beautiful sunset. Azure Blue sky, with sea craft scattered around. [indecipherable] or soc left our place of abode at 7 PM & marched down to Anzac Beach, what a walk, bad management etc 1st [indecipherable] we arrived there & we were put aboard a barge some 50 feet long 20 ft & taken out & put on the S.S. Abbassiel 5000 for Lemnos, we got around some after climbing aboard same up donkey ladders with full pack up, we did not weigh anchor until 7 AM this morning all our Brigade what is left of them, 800 after 6 Reinforcements. It was devilish cold sleeping on board I expect we will get a rough time with the cold. This boat is manned by Greeks bar the Captain English, she is a fast boat. Barge broke rope, left [indecipherable] our boys bying bread 1/- 1/6 2/- per loaf. We found a horse punt which must have or ranks which had broken down it moring eventually it cut the rope we were towing it with, seamen get very excited when doing anything. The stearing gear went wrong about 7 oclock, which of course they had to fall back again on the Hand stearing gear we continued with on our course slowly out side the Harbour at Lemnos 9 oclock. Skipper would not visit until the steam stearing
