  
 attack which as usual did not come off. Then to go to our gully with a party of 6 men to clean up the mess our crowd left behind and it was a lovely job. It has been very hot this morning  We were issued with cigarettes or tobacco to day also fresh meat besides our usual rations. Church parade this morning which I could not attend because of the above. I heard the men singing in the distance. Our Brigadear was promoted to Brigader General It was announced at the Church Parade in order when the men we cheering for that is what it was. We went out again this evening from 3. AM till 7 oclock Terrace making Bay force the boys are Growling the sause being that they are run down. I am feeling that way myself, also the food Bacon & bully beef & biscuits day in & day out with a few onions & Potatos. Maybe a handful of rice or a bit fresh meat 
 26-7-15 Stand to arms again this morning from 3 till 3.50 When we were dismissed we had to go and carry all the rations for the whole battalion 2.5 hours work. As soon as we had breakfast we had to move back t our old home as  the  our terraces were finished. Well we rigged up our shelters in the boiling hot sun mind you that we had to carry all our belongings over by 3.30 this afternoon We had to go swinging the Anchor & banjo agan until 7 oclock we came back and had tea. At 9 oclock we or rather the men were wanted again and they worked on until 1 AM.  At 30  I did not go out. 
 27-7-15  The boys arri  Last Where I was sleeping the wall fell in fully a ton of earth and stone. One chap was completely buried. Pe McPhee of Maitland I go a few burns on the head and jumped indarily out of my doss and rolled down the bank for about 20 feet McPhee was not hurt much. The boys arrived back at 2.30. this morning, and were made to stand to arms at 3.30 for 10 minutes. Rations to day as follows. Bread Bacons cheese, rice comequarts 20 figs per man, onions, Bully Beef, Jams & tins pair & a little lemon squash. Out on fatigue again getting our muscles in good order Pe Dicks H Sherse 4 till 8. PM. 
