  
 with our wateroproofs over our head in back I fell asleep my mate Cpl Bantley spread his doss out again after a while a good wet of course he did not swear. I woke about 2 pm & laid mine out & had a peaceful sleep unti 3 oclock but I woke up as if I had been out all night in fact I swore I have not mentioned how were have our rations served out to us the C.Om. has nine men each day to get the C. Roll He divides it up into four parts & each platoon Sgt arms his he cut or divid it up into sections & the section Comm issues it to the men. Water is issued likewise. I am disgusted with the way things are carried out here. There is absolutely no system whatsoever here it is all a rabble. It is the Officers at fault they will not be arive any ways the men do the fighting on their own there so not one officer out of 10 whom one would trust his life with & the men tell them so, straight out. 
 2-7-15 We were doing nothing today but brushing flies off our selves. The Turks gave our chaps a heavy bombardment on our right to regain their lost ground but did not move them. We went down to the beach to dig dugouts for M.O.S anyone would think they were Officers. 4 till 9 P.M. When we arrived back it started to rain, it was a relief. It  was rain rather had  It was still raining until late this morning from what we have been experiencing. 
 3-7-15 off course we have no flies worrying as for a few hours at least Late this afternoon one of our Aeroplanes was flying over the Turks lines & they gave it a warm reception but did not hit same (darn close for all that) They also gave us a few presents to go to sleep with the Boys were ducking like rabbits whenever they heard one coming Shrapnel. Late last night we had our rum issue we receive some once a week about a tablespoon full. Today we received our tobacco issue but had to return on account of same being mildued we receive it once a week re 5 packets of cigarettes or 2 ozs of pipe tobacco. 
 4-7-15 We went out sapping again to day at Walkers Ridge just near the firing line. I went & had a shot or two at the Turks. While I was looking through a periscope a Turk spotted me & just missed your Truly.  A lot of  there is dead Turks are still in between our trenches by the Enemys & the stench from same is enough to knock one over. When they attacked us on the 29-6-15 the Turkish muster formost ordered the charges they came as if they were going to obey but were badly mistaken. When I was looking around the Turks were dropping shells all over the place now & again  we used to get the tale end of same. They were also firing at our transports one shell hit one of same. I saw Grant Radley today 
 5-7-15 When we woke up this morning there was a artillery duck on between us & the enemy. They were sending us [indecipherable] along to us. They do shift some dirt when they burst [indecipherable] then got quite about 9 oclock [indecipherable] until evening when dirt waterplane went under & drew his fire & then the [indecipherable] for a while. Super morning [indecipherable] 
 