
could not hear himself speak It was all along the line you could hear it on the right that is at Achi Baba & came right down to the left lane The Turks poured a couple of beautiful shells I daresay they were 8 in 2 lb shells 2 [indecipherable] the explosions was beautiful to hear. The Turks plane was up again this afternoon but did not no damage our fleet had it observations balloon up this afternoon for some reason or other. It has been hellish hot here to day I cant remember a hotter day anywhere. Dysantary is very bad amongst the Troops here. Rations today was a Frozen Beef & Mutton jam sugar Tea Potatoes, Bacon cheese Lime juce juice. The Flys are something damnable here. The Turks are shelling the beach where all the stores are & they are killing men like flys. The Authorities don't seem to care well how many men are killed If a little job is to be done they have about 3 times as many men that are necessary. The Turks Aeroplane was up again this evening the Taube Plane. Run issue last night
31-7-15Out sapping from 11-30 to 3 PM. this morning. It is a new sap for us to get to the beach because the other one was dangerous in fact men used to get killed by the Turks shrapnel on the road down to the beach it is there as one line of Howitzers guns ready to be placed in working order. Last night we a chap was playing a cornet it was beautiful to hear him play also the muses. Ration this morning to day Bacon bread 1/2 jam 4 tea sugar cheeses B. Beef Issue of tobacco & Cigarettes 2 ozs of Tobacco or 4 packet of smokes, 2 boxes of matches. The Turks gaves us a pleasant half hour this morning of shells bust of the side of a bed one of our chaps was in his dugout & the stones & dust which the shells removed from same made the Tenant double down the gully at top pace at the delight of the Boys. Turks Aeroplane flew us again only it soon went back again. Rum issue again.
1-8-15.I gave a chap my issue of rum last night after he had drunk same he began to talk until we had to chase him away so we could have a little sleep. There was a big attack last night & what with the navy & our artillery this chap whom was so talkative we could not get any sleep at all. The hills simply shook with the big gun fire while it lasted. There was a beautiful storm last night (Dust storm) it blew down our blankets which we have for covering to keep the sun out. Ration issue to day Fresh meat beef BaconCheese jam Biscuits hard ones, Currants Rice plenty onions also. Water 4 Gallons.
