  
 6-7-15 Jack Johnstons still come to greet us this morning but did no damage but dig red dirt. Last night the 16th Batt was going to Embros Island for a weeks spell. As they were going the Turks showered them with shrapnel but did not hit anybody from  but  what I hear. A Submarine appeared  yes  today & all the little Cargo boats made of for safety. I disappeared when the Destroyers shoved of. A. C. Message from Maitland P. Girls League. 
 7-7-15 Nothing doing today other than brush flies off oneself & drink Adams Ale, that is if you can get it. 
 8-7-15 Were called out this morning at 6.30 AM to go on fatigue. Re unloading a barge with foodstuffs etc so some of the lads were skeaming on the others so I went to look for them & gave them a gentle reminder when I was coming back I stopped & spoke to a Officer we were talking for about 5 minutes when some troops were  Landed from Embros after having a weeks spell & shrapnel came wizzing along the Officers said look out at the same time we both dropped flat on the ground [indecipherable] & did he fell upon me, the shell embeded itself in a stack of flour about 3 feet from us in fact same went over us. This afternoon our Moniters started to shell the Turks because they gave the beach a peppering same killed a few of our battalion whom were down swimming the Moniters were giving them a good shelling it was a pretty sight to see the Turkish shells falling in the water which of caused the water to spout up above 50 feet.  that  The wether here has been damable hot. 
 9-7-15 Compton family. Nothing doing to day inlaying Piquet. very hot. Saw Light box 
 10-7-15 We had to stand to a 8 AM. & at 4.20 PM. My Platoon was called upon to go on Pick & Shovel which of cause means that we had no selly Lining same made the boys go very sore verbally 80 min well I went chasing around & woke officers from their slumbers before I could get the right one. However he gave me the required note for water which I made tea for the whole lot of them & a tin of biscuits. When going for water this afternoon a Battlecruiser was bombarding Ache Baba it was a beautiful sight to see the flares come out from her [indecipherable] of course the Destroy were playing their part. The [indecipherable] & we sighted one of our Aeroplanes going over to the Turkish line. The Turkish artillery gave same a good reception it was flying around for about 2 hours. We counted 20 shells fired at her but got 
