
Mule chasing now. Mule on back
23-6-15Letters from bike chaps. Things were very [indecipherable] until midday the The Turks gave us something to keep us awake. One man while swimming was hit with a cap off same it ripped the arm off him at the elbow on this hit & fair saved [indecipherable] in half the caps were flying in all  direction take the bullets. We are going sapping to [indecipherable]24-6-15Just as we marched off last & Shrapnel burst over head & the shell hit the side of Cliff close by which caused stones to fly all directions one stone hit a chap on the shin & to see the look of horror on his face it made us all laugh at him. He moved further on without further ado. While sapping doing our work last night which was watering the beach with salt water so as to harden same for the Franons thing were very quiet. But at 3 AM. a Destroyer which had its searchlight on the Turkish trenches on our left flank, all night gave them something to go on with re 24 shells quick & lively. I am told it made them do the Turky Trot. It was a beautiful night with (half moon). Just where we were working the Indian mule drivers were watering their horse mules just before going to work to hear them jabbering at times in real Australian language it one has to laugh at them mind you they only use same when the mules get troublesome (which is often) Shrapnel full of iron
25-6-15Nothing much doing other than a few shrapnels paying us a visit. As we were going on a fatigue a shrapnel burst on a cliff near by & of course sent stones off same about somewhat. One stone hit a chat on the shin & to see the look of dismay on this face it made one laugh I can assure you that he moved further on at the double. is night..
26-6-15It is morning, fire broke out in one of the Chaps dugout & his equipment caught on fire & to hear the ammunition exploding one would think it was Kings birthday. While sapping were were gritted with a few rounds of bullets
27.6-15I was going for a swim about 5 oclock this morning & the Turks started the attack a dummy one it appears but I did not go as expected we may have been called but to date
