St. George For England
By Jo Chamberlin in the "American Legion Journal."
Reveille 1.3.40
"Volunteers are wanted for an undertaking of real danger."
These mysterious words went quietly ?round the British Navy in November, 1917. And the volunteers, it was added, should not expect to return. The time had come for desperate endeavour.
A German victory was terribly close in those dark days. Russia had collapsed on land, the Allies were retreating before German legions released from the Eastern front. At sea, the U-boats were sinking 400,000 tons of ships a month, four times as much as they would send to the bottom in the first months of the repeat war in 1939. If they kept this up, the Allies would collapse before the Yanks could unleash their full power.
Manned by these volunteers, there assembled in the mouth of the Thames a broken-down battleship, several obsolete cruisers, two ferryboats from Liverpool named the Iris and Daffodil, and other craft ? seventy-four vessels in all, including motor boats. Admiral Roger Keyes, commander of this strange armada, revealed at last to his men that they would attempt what no navy had ever accomplished: the blocking of a harbour. In fact, two harbours ? Ostend and Zeebrugge.
Captured by the Germans in 1914, and heavily fortified by them, these two Belgian ports were a threat to the lifeline of ships from England to France. Here, only eighty miles from Dover, was the lair of at least ten destroyers, thirty-five torpedo boats and thirty submarines. From Zeebrugge ran a ship canal to Bruges, six miles island. A similar canal connected Ostend to Bruges. At Bruges was a great shipyard, converted by the Germans into a naval base 300 miles nearer England than any German port. Only torpedo boats could use the canal from Ostend. But down the deeper canal from Zeebrugge destroyers and submarines came and went at will.
Admiral Keyes proposed to cork these lethal canals by sinking British ships across their entrances. If he succeeded, thirty submarines would be bottled up for the rest of the war.
Zeebrugge, the German sub-base, was naturally the No. 1 objective. Shielding the canal mouth from the storms of the North Sea, a mole, or breakwater, curved in a semi-circle one and one-half miles out from shore. Most of the mole was a huge railway dock for the supply of German warcraft. Connecting the dock with the shore was a viaduct of open steelwork which supported the railway. To protect the mole were machine-guns, barbed wire, eight heavy guns mounted on the mole itself, and along the coast 225 guns with ranges up to eighteen miles. They were there to blast to bits any Englishman silly enough to try landing troops at this strategic spot for a flank attack on the German army in France.
Keyes planned to land troops on the mole merely to divert and mislead the enemy. Meanwhile, three old cruisers would slip around the mole, sneak into the harbour, and sink themselves across the mouth of the ship canal. It sounded simple, yet it was complicated, because wireless or other method of signalling was taboo and everything had to be done on time schedule.
The most important actor in this drama was incalculable ? the weather. There should be no moon. The wind ought to be blowing toward the shore, to permit the attackers to lay down a smoke screen. High tide was needed, to get the blocking ships into the channel. The sea had to be smooth, so that troops could be landed on the mole.
The obsolete light cruisers Iphigenia, Sirius, Brilliant, Intrepid and Thetis were overhauled. Explosive charges were laid along their keels. The United States Navy was consulted on using cement to balk efforts to raise the ships after they had been sunk. The Vindictive was fitted with a false deck and special gangways to land men on the mole, which rose 32 feet above the water. The two lowly ferryboats for storm troops, Daffodil and Iris, were armored with steel. The public protest when they were removed from service at Liverpool had been quieted by announcing they were to be used in America to embark troops!
Two old submarines had their bows packed with tons of explosive. Were their crews to be human bombs? Aeroplane photos were taken of the harbour. Marines and bluejackets practised storming objectives, with a full-scale model marked on the ground.
Finally, in March, 1918, all was ready ? except the weather. Night after night the moon was too bright, or the wind too fickle, or the tide too low. The men were on edge. Each moment increased the chances that the enemy was warned, and warning meant annihilation. From France came nothing but bad news. No one knew where the Germans would stop. It was the hour of despair.
Twice this queer fleet started out, only to return to its lonely anchorage. On April 11th, when but a dozen miles from the goal, a favorable wind veered, threatening to blow their own smoke screen back into their faces. On the 13th, rough seas forced another cancellation. On the 22nd the tide was high, the sea was smooth, the wind was right. But the moon was full. Admiral Keyes decided to start once more. The men were at a high pitch. They would reach Zeebrugge at midnight, when it would be St. George's Day, and he was England's patron saint. It was a good omen. Admiral Keyes signalled his fleet, "St. George for England!" Captain Carpenter, on the Vindictive, signalled back, "May we give the dragon's tail a damned good twist!"
Under the full moon one could see for miles. Then down fell a drizzling, blanketing mist. Perhaps St. George was on their side! At a given point the Brilliant, Sirius and other craft left to blockade the Ostend canal mouth, while the main group continued on to Zeebrugge.
Shortly before midnight the monitors Erebus and Terror began the bombardment of Zeebrugge with their long-range guns. The Germans were not surprised; this had often happened. Two or three searchlights casually explored the night, then went out. A star shell rose and fell to seaward, unwittingly locating the mole for the approaching ships. Like angry hornets the motor boats sped ahead to lay down the smoke screen. As the Germans sighted them, Zeebrugge exploded into life.