Spare page.
October, 1917
So every man was issued with buttonholed tabs and buttons to sew on to his great coat, thus:-
Buttons
Buttons
Tabs
The coat could then be tucked up to two different lengths as desired. The idea came in very handy at times. There was an amazing scene one Sunday on parade. Some N.C.O.'s had returned to Hurdcott from France ? overcoats neatly folded on their packs. However, one wet Sunday the order was for overcoats on parade. They appeared with their greatcoats reaching the length of their tunics, the inside pockets hanging down several inches lower than the coats.
Inside view of greatcoat.
October 14th
Sunday, 14th October, we had a medical inspection. Poor old Bill Collins was cut off the draft because he had not been inoculated twice. He made for the orderly room and repeated my scene there, but all to no avail.
I sent some of my spare socks and my camera to Mr. Brackpool (Harold's uncle) at Hastings, so that I could write for them as I wanted them.
October 16th
On Tuesday night at 8.30 we were finally warned that we were to leave the next morning. There was a good deal of doubt as to what battalion we were in reinforce, and also as to whether we were going straight into the line. It was a signallers? draft so far as our camp was concerned, as the infantry did not leave till about a fortnight later. Old Scotty Mac., who warned us that we were to go in the morning, seemed highly elated. I think that the Sigs. had always been a thorn in his flesh.
(From here to about the middle of July 1919 I have re-written a letter I wrote to France covering about eight months. The only additions are those which cover facts that I did not, at the time, deem desirable to include.)
October 17th
Next morning, the 17th October, we were wakened about 4 o'clock. We dressed and went to the dining room, where a good breakfast was awaiting us. We then formed up on the parade ground to listen to a short lecture from the C.O. There were nine of us going to the 30th and about the same number for each of the other 8th Brigade battalions ? 29th, 31st and 32nd. It seemed a lot of signallers to be sending