  
 scene, the soil or something showing up brick red, the sight greatly impressed our Boy's also astonished them.  The harbour is nothing, we anchored for a couple of hours & then had a shake up tea & then we were taken ashore in big launches & entrained, all blinds had to be drawn for fear of Zeppelins, we arrived at Exeter about 1 AM Monday & the good ladies there supplied us with tea & a bun, it was greatly appreciated.  We arrived at Tidworth & went on for a couple of miles to some siding or station & detrained, we then marched about 4 miles to our camp, it had previously been raining & the place was muddy, though the camp itself was pretty good.  We had bully beef & biscuits for the three meals, it was crook, a lot of us bought our tea.  Tuesday 13th June, still cold & bleak we had better food for breakfast.  We done a lot of marching today.  Wednesday still cold & bleak, the sun comes out for a few minutes at rare intervals during the day, we did a lot of marching this morning & signalling this afternoon.  Thursday 15th June, weather much better, sun out most of the day, though not hot as the sky is very cloudy.  We had lecturing & signalling today & was paid later on in the afternoon.  Friday 16th weather fine, though a cool breeze blowing lovely lying in sun, more lectures & signalling. 
 I have a very bad cold, nearly all our chaps are so affected.   Friday  Saturday 17th weather still lovely (in the sun).  Hansen & I went for a walk to Tidworth (2 mile or so) Sunday only morning parade.  Monday weather cold & threatening rain, sun came out at intervals.  Tuesday 20th best day so far.  Wednesday we put our leave passes in, but had no luck.  The weather is very changeable.  Thursday it rained a little today.  The pudding (Sago) was that watery, that there was nearly a bit of a riot over it, food is scarce & not too good.  A lot of the chaps would not go to a concert (which is run by the N.C.O's) tonight over the food question, as we get no satisfaction from the Orderly Sergeant.  Friday 23 drizzling with rain we rehearsed the review for W.M. Hughes.  Saturday the 