  
 to see what happened on June 2nd & see how lucky we were while on our trip through the Mediterranian.  Sunday weather fine, though a bit cold before and after the sun appears.  Rumour that transport "Briton" was lost with all hands has been denied, though something did happen. 
 Monday 5th June, sea oily calm, weather good, Gibraltar sighted late in afternoon, we arrived there at dusk, but didn't go right inside the harbour.  Gibraltar looks all she is claimed to be, coming from the east, she rises straight out of the water, looking in parts, as though she has great concrete patches on the slope, so as to strengthen it, on the west or harbour side, it slopes a [b]it more, the town seems to be divided in half, one each end, it looks very picturesque, the roofs are red, giving the place a nice tone, the harbour is of no account.  The Spanish shore looks very inviting, nice green grass & small villages at the foot of small hills, giving the place a very peaceable look.  Tuesday we went into the harbour to take coat & water on.  We are fortunate in seeing two French submarines, one of which went under while we were watching, they either had none or their periscopes were lowered.  We stayed all day at Gibraltar.  Wednesday 7th we left port about 7 AM with lovely cool weather, the old ship is shaking things up, she must be doing 13 knots, she only done about 9 or ten before reaching Gib. 
 Thursday weather getting much colder, though it was nice in the sun, it rained a little tonight.  Friday we had big gun practice, 1 shot being fired.  We received news of Kitcheners death.  I had my fortune told by a comrade & he told me a lot that is right & some that I hope is not.  Saturday 10th it is very cold this morning, sea calm, Sunday.  Ushant (France) sighted at 5 AM, we picked up our escort soon after, we sighted England about 1.30 PM & ran into Plymouth (Davenport first) about 4 PM.  The entrance was very beautiful, the grass & trees being a treat after the sands of Egypt & the sea the farms seen give an added color to the 