Saturday 25th Xmas Day.
Glorious day. Sun shining and not a cloud in the sky. Bacon and 2 eggs and Tomatoes for Breakfast, besides Porridge. Tables arranged under trees, and bunting flying, sat down and were waited on by Volunteer orderlies.- had jolly good time. Church Parade, very nice sermon. Padre alluded to folks at home and wished us all a happy Xmas; then we adjourned for dinner.
Dinner. Soup, Fish, Beef Rissoles, tomato and beetroot salad, Tinned and fresh fruits. Tea. Salmon Salads, more fruits, Biscuits and Cheese typed menus. One poor chap died from Meningitis. Had photo taken. Received letter from Nell addressed to Ascot Vale. Had sing-song evening and finished off very pleasant day. Wrote Lill and Cis.
Boxing Day 26. 
Buried poor chap who died, Firing party and Company took him to Ismalia where he was buried in the Military Cemetery, with full honors. Finished off good things obtained for Xmas. Hard at work with Arabs building new latrines. Transport Party arrived with horses. All looking well, Longy and 3 others in our tent, House full. 
Monday 27th
Pay day. Received 12/- 58  P.T. Canteens well patronised. Plenty of money about. Niggers very shrewd. If a man puts down 5 P.T. piece for about 2 pts. worth of stuff, they have no change, and it either means spending the whole 5 P.T. or going without.
8th Weeks.
Tuesday 28th
Moving Camp to new site. Down to old Indian encampment, sand very dirty and full of vermin. Could?nt sleep. Falllons? Preliminary trial came off.
7
Wednesday 29th.
Fixing up camp, Removed dirty old sand from Tents and put in clean sand from banks of Canal. Received letter from France, Glorious weather Had swim in Canal, "Professor" Whyte knocked down hut and made Mess Table. Things quiet, not much doing.
Thursday 30th
Capt. Wooster returned from Port Said, received news of evacuation of Gallipoli. 2 war ships passed down Canal towards Pt.Said. Niggers hard at work digging pits for water filters.
Friday 31st.	
New Years? Eve. Things very quiet. Don't know what the dickens to write in my diary. Same old programme day after day. Rations getting short to make matters worse. 1 tin Jam between 3 tents 1 candle to last 2 nights. 12 in our tent too. We are hoping that things will improve next year commencing to-morrow.