next door with a nice garden. Had a look round this morning. There are apple and pear trees there, but the fruit is not too ripe yet, worse luck. There are some beautiful roses blooming there and the perfume from them is very sweet. A crowd of us were sittingup in the cookhouse yarning when bang, a shell burst about 20 yds. away and stones and loose earth hit against the iron gates. It took us about 5 sec. to get down below to our cellar. 
Thursday 13th
Slept soundly last night, in spite of the Guns. Things were quiet only 1 casualty arriving during the night. A chap from the 29th got pipped in the arm whilst fixing up the sap. A shell dropped in among the 13th Bat. yesterday, killed 2 and wounded 1. They are burying them tonight quite close to our Brewery. Did some washing this morning. Came out to the trenches at 2 on duty again. We are at "White city Post" this time. Last time we were at "Tramway Post". This is a much more pleasant dug-out than our last. It is as quiet as the grave just as I am writing this. The birds are chirping away quite merrily and it is jolly hard to realise that the Germans are so near. Things were quiet till about 9 p.m., then the guns got busy. Bricky Howard and Hancock formed a party and Macdougall and I the other. We tossed up before we retired to bunk, to see who should take in the first case, and we lost.
Friday 14th
About midnight one of the details called me to take in a walking case. His name was Cope, or B.Coy. 29th Batt. and he was wounded in the head by shrapnel. The guns were kicking up an infernal din but we arrived safely within about 200 yds. of our D.S. when a shell burst almost on top of us, and several more round about. We flopped down with our faces in the garden of a cottage and then for about 10 mins. (which seemed to me 10 years) the ground round about us trembled beneath a terrific fusilade of shells. We quite expected every moment to be our last and heaved a big sigh of relief when it was over, and we were still alive. We covered the remaining distance in double quick time. On my way back to the trenches I met "Mac" with another walking case, another 29th man, who was shot clean through the finger.