Tuesday 11th
The Trenches are well built, and a man is fairly safe in ?em, as long as a big shell doesn't lob inside. The dressing station in the trenches is quite snug, but the dug-outs for the stretcher bearers are rather too damp to be comfortable Bricky and I soon "turned in" after having a look round, but we didn't get much sleep, as machine guns were peppering away all night, and the big guns fairly shook the ground. I was just dozing off when something landed with a thud right alongside my head. I hopped out quick and lively and struck a match to discover a tin of corned beef had fallen off a crosspiece of the roof. It was a great relief. We were not troubled all night as they didn't have a single casualty, which was a jolly good thing for all concerned. 
Tuesday 11th
Lill's Birthday. Hope I'm home for the next. 
July 1916       
We got up about 8 and "Fossicked" around for some means of making tea. We came across the "dug out" which the 14th Batt. details had been using. Here we found cheese and tea and sugar and a primus stove and soon had a good feed inside us. Then we walked along to the front line trenches, which the Batts. had occupied during the night. Saw Peter, who was having a good time sorting out hand grenades. The German trenches are about 2 or 3 hundred yds, away and we could see them quite plainly through the periscopes. The trenches are a huge maze and if it were not for the direction being posted up at the corner one could easily get lost. Our relief arrived about 2.30 so we handed over to them and returned to our Brewery where we told our tales of "daring do" to the rest of the crowd. Then we had a good feed of stew and a good wash. Just as we started eating "Billsey" May and "Snowy" Atherton arrived back with the first casualty. A chap named Cochrane of the 29th Batt. A shell made rather a mess of him. He had the honour of being the first of "Tivey's Tourists to get hurt. Several other cases arrived during the night, making a total of 8. One chap came in badly knocked about by a machine Gun. He dashed over to the German lines and grabbed a flag from the trench parapet but they got him on his return trip. His name was Borchard, a Lth. in the 14th Battn.
Wednesday 12th
The guns were lively all night and we got very little sleep. One good thing Breakfast was not till 11, so we had a good sleep in. I don't think our poor old Brewery will last much longer as the shells are bursting all around it. There is a pretty little cottage