The transports had?nt arrived and as the cooks gear was on them we could?nt get any tea, and had to sit around in the cold, with slush up to our knees. Mac I went up the town and purchased a bottle of red wine, which warmed us up a bit before we curled up in the straw and went to sleep.
Saturday 21st
The SOMME.
About 6 a.m., we heard a big roaring voice roar out" Who's in here" "B.Sec. Bearers" we said, "Well B.Sec. Bearers open this door. We opened the door and discovered the well known form of Capt. Irving who told us in forcible tones to "show a leg" we turned out and found the ground white with frost and all the water with ice on it. Our thick socks and mufflers are greatly appreciated. The thick ones M.S. sent me have saved me from many an attack of cold feet. We had Bacon and Tea for Break. and the tea tasted like water. We fell in about 9 and hung about till about 10. Then we marched or rather slowed through a few more miles of mud to the A.D.S. We passed innumerable troops on the road. Artillery Infantry, Cavalry and all kinds of soldiers. They brought about 14 of us along in motor cars as an advance party.
Some of the infantry had their Fife and drum bands to play them from the trenches and they sounded very well. On our way we passed ALBERT where our fellows drove the Germans out of at the beginning of the "Big Push" There is a church there with a statue of the Virgin Mary on top. The German knocked the statue with a shell and now it lies in a horizontal position across the tower. It is gradually slipping down and the few country people about say that when it falls the war will end From now on the country is flattened out by artillery fire, and the ground is one mass of shell holes, not a building or a tree is left standing. Our engineers and Navy Battns. have made a road and also laid a Railway line almost up to the trenches. In places the road is in an awful mess, mud up to the horses bellies, and we almost had to carry the motor amb. over the worst spots. The shells are carried to the Guns by Pack Horses and there is a constant stream of them on the move night and day. The bombardment never ceases.