best way we could. The rum had made new men of us and we got quite cheerful and had some bread and jam. before turning in to sleep. The floor was wet and muddy so we spread a piece of roofing felt on the floor and Billsy Snowy and I turned in together. We had to sleep in our wet clothes.
Thursday 26th
The last few days have been one vast period of carrying patients through the mud. Pulling each other out of shell holes, and searching 
for somewhere to sleep. This is about 12 mid day and up to now we haven't had a decent feed or a sleep and everybody is dead beat. So many exciting incidents have happened that it is very difficult to think of them all. About 4 a.m. on Wed. we had just returned from our 8 hours duty (with a 2 hour walk either way) and we were lived up awaiting our Rum issue when a shell burst about 20 yds. away and smothered us all in mud. Something struck me very hard in the chest and I thought I was hit, I felt there and found it wet, I thought it was blood but on going to the light discovered it mud and not a "Blighty" the shell fire is terrific and never ceases night or day. It is murderous carrying patients at night it is pitch dark and at times only for the flash from guns and star shells we should get bushed or bogged in the mud. The times for changing shifts are getting altered and the 15th are relieving the 14th at 4 instead of 8 we met them on the way out. After getting our rum Snowy Billsy and I crawled into what we thought was a 15th dugout. No sooner had we settled down than 2 of the 14th returned, so of course we had to clear out and make room for them. It was drizzling with rain and our boots and pants were full of water and were mighty cold to put on. We crawled over to the cookhouse and lay down there all among the greasy dishes. On our way over we dropped our blankets in the mud and lost one, and it was icy cold. No sooner had we laid down than a whizz-bang came over and smothered us with mud, it was about 5 a.m. by now and we just got over this shock when the cooks came and turned us out so we finished our nights rest in the cooks dug out. We had to turn out again about 7.30 for Break. It is lovely? Turning out these cold mornings and putting on wet muddy boots and pants with mud up to the crutch. A drink of hot tea puts great head into a man. We were to be on duty from 12 a.m. till 6 p.m. There, and as it was a 2 hours scramble through mud and shell holes to get to our post we had to fall in at 9.30 to draw rations and we left the A.D.S. about 10. It is a good dugout at North Road, the same post we were at on Sunday. There were 16 men at each post.