Sunday 11th
Sent Parcel Home. Wrote No. 5 to L.
Monday 12th
Went into Ismalia. Had a good look round Arab Quarter which is very dirty and smelly. Met a chap belonging 18th A.S.C. had refreshments with him at Basta's Caf, Paid visit to a silk shop in the "Rue Negselli" and bought a very nice table cloth. Returned to camp about 3 to find that we had our orders to move. Everyone was in high spirits to know that we were going at last. The mail was closed, so I had to fly round and get my parcel ready for posting and take it down to Headquarters. Didn't even have time to enclose a note to Lill.
Tuesday 13th
The Div. Sports were to have "come off today" but we had a very impressive memorial service to Lord Kitchener, and sports postponed till tomorrow at 5.40 the service was held. The whole brigade marched on to the Parade ground and the 29th Batt. band played the Hymn music. The drum was muffled and draped. The chaplain spoke a short address and said what a great loss the Army had suffered. Then we sang "Nearer My God To Thee", "Lead Kindly Light" "For Those in Peril on the Sea" and 3 of our most beautiful hymns. They sounded very fine, sung by 4 thousand off lusty throats; to the accompaniment of the band. At the close of the service the Brigade Major roared out "Parade. Shun" and then every man stood as steady as a rock while the band played the "Dead March "In Saul" and the bugle blew the "Last Post" Just as the last notes died away, the sun faded out of sight and another day ended.
Our Athletes have been training hard for the last few days, and we are looking forward to them making a name of themselves tomorrow. Payney is Sergt. Trainer assisted by Woods at Rubber Down. They attend no parades and are also getting an extra meal ration.
Wednesday 14th the great sports day.
Reveille at 4.30 Break. At 5. The first item was down for 6 a.m. 100 yds. Won by Connell (Div.Pioneers) 2 Corbett. 3 Holman. Bye Relay Race. Won by 8th Brig. Team. Jack Kein from our crowd.
JUNE 1916
HIGH JUMP 5ft 15th Brig. Hefferman came about 4th.
220 yds. (1) Connell (2) (3)
RELAY RACE. Won by 8th Brig. Team (Wickes) 
OBSTACLE RACE. 15th Brig.
TUG OF WAR. 15TH Brig. 8th Brig. 14th Brig.
Major Williams was our mainstay He is a great Sprinter.
BEST LIMBER. And Pair Horses. 8th Brig. (ours) 
880 yds.
The ground was laid out in first class style and we had 4 bands playing, which made things lively.