Thursday 2nd Nov.
The big were very active last night and very few of us had much sleep. May and Laycock were light headed and were passing remarks about the war all night. I wrote at daylight and lit my pipe. We enjoy a smoke very much these times. Break. Was on at 9, but we were too tired to go over for any. Stayed in bed and had some bread and butter. Blue Riley brought us a drink of tea, we "turned out" about 10.30 had a wash in a shell hole, then went over and had a feed of stew. There was a bag of bread scraps outside the cookhouse, which we raided like a lot of hungry wolves. Rations are, indeed very short We left Green Dumps about 12 and came out to McCormacks Post just before we left the cry went up "Fall in for Mail" There was a Holy Rush and as each man got his letters, a beautiful smile broke out and lit his face like sunshine. If only our people at Home could see a mail being distributed it would do their hearts good. I got 6 letters, 1 from France, 1 Mother, and 4 from M.S. and a Photo and P.C. Lord, it puts new life into a man to know the folks at home think of him.
JIM LILLEY WOUNDED
On the way back to Green Dump after being relieved, the 15th F.A. lost 5 men, yesterday. Jim Lilley got a nasty wound, shrapnel clean through his helmet, and tore up the scalp, parting his hair and fracturing the skull. He's pretty crook. We got out to McCormacks about 2 and got a good dug-out. MacD, has rejoined our squad in place of Snowy Atherton. Rass, Alec, Nuggett Bennett and Les Townsend, are also in our dug-out. Rass made a fire and we had some tea and a feed. B.B. B. and a tiny quantity of jam. After tea we had a walking case "Billsy" and I, Beautiful moonlight night and we could pick our road through the mud, when we returned, I lit my pipe, and read my letters through a few more times. It is a fortnight now since we have been blocked from writing and the Lord only knows when we shall be able to write again. Poor old B.E, will wonder what is wrong. Ah well, we shall be able to make up for it soon, I hope.