Friday 3rd
About 2 a.m. we had just finished a drink of coffee and Biscuits, when 2 stretcher cases arrived, our squad had to turn out. The Moon had disappeared and a mist came down making the place pitch dark. We couldn't see our hands in front of our faces. The patient told us he weighed 15 stone. In places the mud us up to our knees and we had to flounder through it. Several times we got bogged and had to haul one another out. It was a murderous carry and we were all dead beat on arriving at The Crest Poor old Reg. Sutton came on behind us with the other patient. He had 3 Infantry chaps with him as bearers and they are almost useless, as after carrying their packs out to our posts they are dead beat. We crawled back to our dug-outs and almost collapsed from sheer exhaustion. It was frightfully cold and "Rass" and Alec saved our lives by lighting a fire and making some tea. We had one more case, but it was daylight then and we could pick our way better. We were having a snooze all kuddled together, when capt. Irving came along and set us on to dig a shelter for the Sledge horse, as the shells were flying pretty thick. The sledges are working well, but cannot be used at night as they cannot pick their way through the shell holes. We left McCormicks about midday and went to Goose Alley. This was a German stronghold and the number of dead men and horses still lying about, testify to the fierceness of the fighting. There are plenty of dug-outs about which Fritz built. It is very evident that he never imagined he?d be driven out, as some of the dug-outs are quite elaborate. There are great stacks of empty beer, wine, and mineral water bottles about, so Fritz must have been doing very well. The dug-out we occupied had straw on the floor and shelves to sleep on, so we were able to stretch ourselves out and have a good rest. We had 6 stretcher squads of 6 men each, and about 2 a.m. 6 stretcher cases came in all at once, so the whole crowd of us left and came back together a thing that has never happened before.