  
 was given and done towards comforting us. 
 11th. Three Dutch hospital ships arrived, and unloaded hundreds of Huns. During the day the Englishmen were forbidden to speak or approach the Germans. The Huns were welcomed by several Hun women, but the feeling of happiness was lacking. The Dutch people treated them quite indifferently. Towards evening the last party of Huns disembarked and the Englishmen embarked. We were comfortably distributed on the three vessels. 
 12th. 6 a.m. Sailed within a few hours; the vessels passed the Hook and entered the North Sea. 
 13th. We passed many British vessels. Those within a short distance signalled to us. The English cheers poured forth from every vessel, causing one to feel intensely happy. The sea was calm and the sunshine was ideal. I have never enjoyed a sea voy age so much in all my previous travels. We anchored off Boston in the evening. Unfortunately the low tide preventing us embarking. I think everybody slept peacefully and content. 
 14th. Tenders came alongside, and we were soon flying through the water. Sirens tooted and whistles cock-a-doodled, amidst cheers from the wharf and tenders. Within a few minutes, we were safely landed on the shore. I was thrilled with happiness and pride. Try as I might it is impossible to describe the happiness and joy that I so gladly experienced.  5 a.m.    Free, happy and amongst human beings again. We were welcomed by the mayor of Boston and catered for by the ladies of that port. The military authorities escorted us to a hospital train and several hours later, we detrained at Waterloo, where we received a real English welcome, prior to admission to King George's Hospital, London. 
 Afterword 
 My arrival in Australia has inspired me with indescribable joy. I wish to express my gratitude to the enthusiastic ladies who welcomed me home and catered for me so lavishly. 
 I feel extremely gratified and proud to have assisted abroad and to know that my trifling aid has helped to achieve the peace and ideals of victory attained. 
 I sincerely hope that Australia will continue to honor her dead by adhering to the anti-Hun policy, and forbid any future connection, whatsoever. 
 [Transcribed by Rosemary Cox for the State Library of New South Wales] 
 