
(8)
This provision was inserted because I knew that at least two British residents were held as Prisoners, vix. - Mr. Jolley, British Consul, and Mr. Whiteman, a business man of Rabaul. The latter, who was in New Britain, was released at once and returned to Rabaul.  Consul Jolley was at Kaewieng in New Ireland, and was released by my force when the Garrison was posted.  He was brought back to Rabaul and is now managing his plantation at Raulavat on the North-west Coast of New Britain.
Addendum:
"The contracting parties further agree, that all Civil Officials, whether they take the oath of neutrality or not, shall be entitled to receive at least their 3 months pay from 1st October, 1914, out of the funds of the Colony, and also an advance on Travelling Expenses for returning home, according to the Regulations in force under German Rule.  It is further agreed that they shall have proper facilities for arranging their personal affairs in the Colony.
The Governor promises that the amounts expended under this head will be refunded by the German Imperial Government out of the Yearly Colonial Subsidy.
The Brigadier promises that proper care be taken in order to conduct women and children of deported Officials to the place where their men are.  All claims against the German Administration are to be paid for out of the funds of the Colony.
It is expressly understood that the Papers relating to the personal status of the Officials of the Colony shall be handed over to a German Official designated by the Governor."
According to the German Rules and Customs, which it was agreed should remain in force (Para. 9), it was customary for all Officials to receive payment of their salaries 3 months in advance, and the next payment would have fallen due on 1st October, 1914, a fortnight after the date of the Agreement of Capitulation.
These Officials were to be deported to Australia, and some of them had wives and families here.  It was represented to me by the Ex-Governor that nearly all of them were without means, and deporting them in this condition would be throwing them on the charity of someone else.  He, therefore, asked that three months pay and travelling expenses be advanced to them from the Administration funds by way of a loan, on his undertaking to refund the same at once from the balance of the Imperial German Colonial Subsidy, which he said was then due.
The full amount of the subsidy voted for the year by the German Imperial Parliament for the Colony of New Guinea was, he said, as far as I can remember 217,000 marks, but only 100,000 of this had up to that time been remitted, and he was confident that on arrival in Australia he would have no difficulty in obtaining the balance, I believe he said, through the medium of
 