

The enemy again turned his 8.2 shells on to us today this afternoon – about tea time; planting two into the middle of the hospital tents, another perilously near the wireless station, & a further one just above the office on the hill opposite. One poor devil had his legs blown off whilst there were several other serious casualties in the hospital.

A "funk" hole is to be built to enable us to take shelter from these monsters of destruction.

Saturday 6th Nov 1915

Sent F.P.A. Cards with Xmas & New Year Greetings to

Sunday 7th Nov 1915

It is announced by the War Office that the British transport "Ramazan" has been sunk by shell fire in the Aegean Sea on Sept 19 by enemy submarine. Out of 380 Indian troops aboard 75 were saved, together with 28 of the crew.

There is no truth the Press Bureau states in the report that Lord Kitchener has resigned. He has been sent on a special mission by the Govt. and his duties at the War Office are being temporarily discharged by Mr. Asquith.

Monday 8th Nov 1915

I have been joined in the office by Sgt. Wakeland who has been sick in hospital at Alexandria.

Troops who have been resting at Mudros are gradually returning & will all be back by the end of the week, viz., 9th AIB., N.Z.M.R. Bde., & N.Z.I. Bde. The 7th AIB will then go to its own Division – 2nd H. Division the right.

Mr. Cross, General Rhodes’ Private Secretary, has left for Mudros where he will wait the arrival Colonel. Cross was a great joke here. I was not surprised at his leaving so soon. He soon found out not all violets, he made great fuss when he could not get more than one blanket to cover his precious frame. He was [indecipherable] the anniversary of his service in the New Zealand Government and I am sure he left here for the safer waters of Mudros because flying bullets & shrapnel might cut off the chance of his enjoying the "fruits" in the shape of a magnanimous position of this Civil Service life. He was a typical old woman with about as much cheek as a


