<p class="page" id="a7927017">[Page 17]</p>
<p>child slinging to her skirt signals that the line is clear. There is no veranda  and the brick walls are surmounted  by a roof of red half pipes arranged; in rows with alternate convex and concave surfaces uppermost. It was the same style of roof that had been seen in Colombo. In the well kept garden are growing globe artichokes, lettuces, brussel sprouts and peas, all arranged round a pair of the pine telegraph poles of the characteristic type.<br/>A train passes going in the opposite direction. It is drawn by 2 powerful engines the first of which has a torpedo front to reduce the wind resistance and the 30 or 40 carriages are crowded with poilus who reciprocate the cheering and waving of our men. Goods trains were long and heavy comprising various types of truck, one that was next to us being like a huge barrel on wheels. At the end of certain other trucks was a raised platform with a roof from which the brakes were operated, the object of having  it raised being to give the break -man proper observation of the whole train; usually each train had 3or 4 of these brake trucks in its make up. A commoner type which we were destined to have much closer contact with later on in our campaigning was a covered truck with double doorways on each side, having painted on it in conspicuous letters, 4o hommes ou 8 chevaux.<br/>These passing trains both goods and passenger, are of frequent occurrence and give indication of the French activity. An outstanding feature is the length of the trains and the powerful type of engine used. That certain of them are capable of speed too is shown by an express that rushes past on its way to Paris while we stand by in a siding.<br/>Getting away somewhat from the riverside the line now approaches some rising ground through an overhead bridge where is stationed the ubiquitous French sentry. The slope is thickly wooded and presents a typical Old World winter scene with its bare trees, fallen leaves and scarlet-breasted robin perched on a twig. It only wants a mantle of snow to perfect the picture. Away on the summit of the hill a mile distant is a large stone castle, -relic of early days,- overlooking the countryside for many wide miles.<br/>Now we are back in flat country where there are many signs of spring activity in the bare fields. An old lady with a long stick is driving a team of 3 horses harnessed tandem -  fashion  to a huge load of farmyard manure being carted to one of the stubble fields.  In and adjoining plot 3or4 women are planting potatoes while and old man strikes out the furrows for them. In one corner of a neighbouring vineyard are stacked the winter prunings tied in neat bundles and intended for firewood. This utilisation of all products and universal absence of waste is a general feature throughout the country. Streamlets meandering through the meadows</p>
