<p class="page" id="a7927008">[Page 8]</p>
<p>asked by semaphore what the transport astern of us was, turned sharply abt. almost in her own length and tore off to the "Corsican". The chief impression the little act gave was efficiency. All through the day land was visible on the port side, a rugged coastline with a very high range of snow covered mountains lying further inland. This was a pretty sight with fleecy clouds hanging about their tops, the snow lying deeply in the hollows contrasting with the black ridges and saddles between them.<br/>During the morning we passed 3 or 4 vessels one of which was, I believe, the "Afric". All the men were allotted to the posts they are to take in the event of a submarine attack and at 10 to 4 in the afternoon a practice alarm was sounded. When the inspection at their post was completed they were dismissed but no sooner had they dispersed than a succession of short blasts of the siren was sounded to denote man over board.<br/> There was an instant rush to the decks and the ship was at once bought round in her course. With Fathers' glasses I was able to pick up 3 of the buoys that had been thrown over, and then the man himself after a good deal of time. It took a long while to bring the ship round in her course and she circled round twice before the man was located. When close to him the "captain's gig" was manned and lowered, and directed by the chief officer in the stern of the ship, was pulled over to the man. The warship meantime cruising aimlessly (apparently) about. Lowering the boat meant that the ship had to be stopped and the captain at first refused to do this on account of his orders and of the tremendous risk of a submarine attack being made, but General Birdwood asked him to try and get the man. Fortunately for us no submarine was handy, and just an hour after the alarm being given the gig was back on board with a corpse, all the attempts at restoring respiration being of no avail. It appears that the man was drunk and was put in the guard room, really a part of one of the decks, then when being exercised or moved to another part he deliberately jumped overboard. I hear he belonged to a S.Aust. unit. During the afternoon the course was altered from N to W. Rather more motion as night fell.<br/>About 9o'clock the ship's adjutant who strange to say, is the one who acted in the same capacity on the "Osterley" came to the cabin for a yarn and on leaving mentioned that the burial service was to be held at 10 o'clock and asked me to go with him. Picture the scene on one of the lower decks a little above the water line. An ill lighted passage-way leading to one of the double door-ways in the side has 20or 30 soldiers more or less undressed standing around it, when the Chief Officer, adjutant and 2 or 3 officers come along, and take post near the door-way in the side. The corpse is carried to the side on a wooden grating and covered with a Union Jack. It is placed in position, the lights are switched out and the doorways opened. With only a small torch to light the page of the prayer book the Chief Officer reads 3 or 4 sentences commencing  "I am the Resurrection and the Life" and at the word the grating is tilted in the dim light and a splash indicated that another drunk tragedy is at an end. It was a dismal and pathetic ending and yet it might have been immeasurably worse had a submarine been about while the vessel was stopped.<br/>Saturday 1st April 1916<br/>A perfectly gloriously day, clear and bright, with a slight breeze and a very smooth sea. We were to pass through a portion of the most dangerous part of the Mediterranean close to the spot where the "Minneapolis" was recently sunk, and the captain considered that we were very liable to attack. Double duty was done by lookouts and I volunteered and was on the bridge from 10 until 4, with a break for lunch. Our</p>
