<p class="page" id="a7927006">[Page 6]</p>
<p>that I was to be in charge of the 130 men remaining from our company. After some delay we moved off and marched to Helminah siding in the gathering darkness, the boys all being in high spirits and blowing off steam singing. This was where we had detrained on arrival from Suez, but this time it was a very different kind of train, merely open trucks in which 32 men were packed, the officers were slightly better off in having a baggage truck-practically an open truck with sides and roof. After entraining came a long wait until 10o'clock when with much jarring and jolting we got onto the line to Alexandria. Fortunately it was a fairly warm night and with a blanket and great coat I stretched out with the others on the floor and in spite of a tremendous jarring and shaking with each revolution of the wheels flattened, got some broken sleep.<br/>Wednesday 29th March 1916<br/>After numerous false alarms of "Alexandria" was finally aroused at 6o'clock by the train stopping in a sort of siding where were a number of goods trains all more or less loaded with army stores, straw in bails, firewood   et. Close by was a fairly extensive encampment of Tommies who as the daylight increased gradually began to show themselves. After a short stop the train crawled on and came to a final stop almost at a jetty where we could see the "Transylvania" moored: a train similar to ours had just unloaded its burden of 2nd Training Batt. men, and these were in the process of embarkation.<br/> It was a disappointment to have come thro' Cairo without having been able to see anything (the night was dark and starry) of the country, but we were glad to eventually be at the boat. There were rumours that 2or 3 detonators had been placed on the rails for the benefit of our train. Almost immediately upon arrival we detrained and started to get our men on board, they being taken to their quarters by the ships people as they came on board. The foggy (for the latter part of the journey) journey in open trucks made them appreciate their quarters on board all the more. Our company is well down in the bows and is fairly comfortable. When they were fixed up we went along and got our cabins allotted: was put in a 4 birth room with Prescott and 2 others.<br/> She is a fine boat but not nearly equal to the "Osterley" in my opinion as regard appointments et. It has to be remembered that this boat is now solely a troopship making no provision for passengers. Although we are a most important ship having General Birdwood  5 or 6 other Generals, Headquarters Staff and a large complement of other high officers of all arms on board, we are messing in the 2nd saloon and on 2nd saloon fare, the 1st saloon having been dismantled and converted into an armoury for the rifles. The music room has also been dismantled and is now fitted with temporary bunks, the ship carrying some 3000 troops.<br/>After fixing thing up Prescott and I decided to have a short run up town, caught a tram at the top of the jetty road but after abt. a 10 minute run decided to get out as I had spotted a Telegraph Office. Posted my note to Oll, and then, as the smell and dirt appeared to be even worse than at Cairo and the street scenes were just the same as those at the latter city, we caught  the next tram back: the heat was oppressive and we were not altogether sorry to be back again on board. Fresh troops</p>
