<p class="page" id="a3537011">[Page 11]</p>
<p>my right leg again. The circulation of my blood was much improved by the violence of this short journey, consequently the pain lessened en route. The awful ride continued for more than an hour; my rescuer finally carried me through the outskirts of the village to a huge tunnel or dug-out. The stairs leading to the bottom of the dug-out were at least 50 feet deep; further down were many spacious compartments &ndash; such as dressing station and officers quarters etc. Undoubtedly the tunnel extended for miles, and could comfortably accommodate thousands of men and unlimited quantities of materials. This elaborate dug-out is fitted with electric light, and securely boarded. My stay was brief on account no doubt, the Huns considering the place too elaborate for such people as myself. The Hun stood near me whilst making inquiries about my disposal, and refused my offer of money and badges. I admired the man immensely for his action; as undoubtedly I owe my life to him, and that is not a small debt even though the coming months may prove miserable and uncomfortable. Several Huns carried me from that safe haven, through the battered ruins of the village, to a badly damaged building containing six wounded Australians.</p>
<p>A small fire was burning with a mess tin full of snow meting over it; this appears to be the only means of obtaining water. Meanwhile innumerable Huns, including an officer, amused themselves studying us, their revelry however, was abruptly terminated by a British shell exploding within a few yards of the dilapidated building. They then scattered like rats. When the flying debris had subsided, the Huns returned, but were quickly dispersed by British artillery which opened a barrage on the village. Our captors commenced dancing about in an awful state of nervousness and fright, jabbering and shouting distressingly. Despite our pains we prisoners enjoyed their source of distress. This extraordinary performance continued for quarter of an hour until the shelling ceased. A horse ambulance arrived soon afterwards, much to the joy of we unfortunate wounded prisoners. We were packed in one on the</p>
