<p class="page" id="a3537030">[Page 30]</p>
<p>of risking a bullet to obtain <strike>additional food</strike> a few fragments of food, whilst working in the vicinity of Hun lines and billets. Fortunately it is possible to make an occasional, hasty raid on a canteen or billet; this however entails considerable danger. The usual procedure is to knock the occupants down and seize what useful articles are within reach and make a stealthy exit. This is very dangerous work and invariably the exploit results in severe rifle butting and not infrequently, bullets. Starvation is cruel, and the incessant craving for food makes men terrible desperate. It is really wonderful how their weak state permits them to work or march, however, it is forced, and one knows not his strength, until tested by endurance and suffering. This sort of thing is common. I know of cases where men have collected rubbish from refuse tubs and grass and bones; in fact anything likely to contain a fraction of nourishment. They stew this awful assortment in a pot of water and consume with relish. (On the other hand however, these facts are not within human <strike>suffering</strike> conception.)    Subsequently the disease and filth cause abscesses and internal complaints. Hundreds of these cases are admitted here. No doubt these disclosures appear too highly colored. The commandant at a Reprisal Camp nearby, roughly eight kilos' from Valenciennes; revels in the practise of increasing the burden and misery of the men's lives. The following is a good example of the brutish manner in which he carries out his plans. Every Sunday morning the men are compelled to parade with a clean change of underclothing and foot rags. Not one particle of clothing is every issued. The Commandant knows perfectly well that it is impossible to wash the few rags the man have, without causing additional, intense misery. Soap is unprocurable, (as I have mentioned before) and to comply with this beast's order, it is necessary to soak the clothes over night and carry on at work without underclothing. The weather is invariably wet and cold and miserable; fires are unheard of, consequently the tattered clothing is worn while still wet. The cold alone, tortures the unfortunate men almost to death. If a man is suffering with frostbit, or other complaints, he is not allowed to cease work, which of course he should do; he is clubbed along</p>
