<p class="page" id="a3537047">[Page 47]</p>
<p>the mere thought of undergoing anaesthetic in the hands of Huns, but it is wise to preserve one's outward composure.</p>
<p>21st.-28th. My leg was agin X-rayed. During the performance I experienced another phase of Hun torture. The bandages were removed in the operating theatre. After two hours suspense and waiting, I was forcibly compelled to walk a distance of ten yards to the "Rontfon" room where I was ordered to get on a table. Unfortunately my discharging wound soiled the table cover. It is customary to place a cloth or paper pad under the leg, or wherever the wound may be; to prevent the table cover being soiled. In this case I was merely told to get on the table and wait until they were ready to attend to me. When a Hun finally commenced to operate; he discovered a spot of pus; and promptly lost control of his vile temper. He roared furiously and struck me several blows on the face and body. I was quite unable to retaliate, but did my utmost to guard myself and strike him in return; which of course was futile, on account of my state of incapacity. During the struggle the door was locked, thus shutting off any chance of assistance. If I had called or shouted to anyone outside; Hun orderlies would have promptly appeared and my tormenter would explain the circumstances, to suit his own purposes. I would undoubtedly, have received additional "straffing". Subsequently I was X-rayed and glad to free myself from that Hun brute. The latter four days of the week were extremely miserable. Each morning at eight a.m, I was taken into the operating room expecting to undergo an operation. On each occasion I waited (one hour; sometimes longer) in the room during operations, expecting to go on the table every moment. This sort of thing has an awful effect upon one's nerves, especially when so weak. Fortunately I am accustomed to open wounds, but the anaesthetic and odious smells, nearly caused me to faint. Each morning, my heart palpitated horribly after the severe strain. The Huns' delight in placing a man near a table whilst an amputation or similar ghastly operation is</p>
