<p class="page" id="a3537074">[Page 74]</p>
<p>their food supply. Gutteridge speaks German fluently; he persuaded the Hun farmer to give him some potatoes. He and his companions promptly commenced cooking them and whilst they were doing this, the "frau" by accident discovered their identity. She immediately informed her husband, who rushed out with a blunder-buss and covering the party, ordered them to accompany him into the house. Seeing that the Hun farmer and his "frau" were in a state of nervous fear:  the party merely ignored his order and calmly proceeded with their cooking, telling the Hun to wait until they had eaten. The Hun protested, but the party obstinately refused to move until the potatoes were demolished, whey they accompanied the Huns indoors, and consented to be locked in a room. Whilst the Hun was gone to inform the local military authority, the party forced open the door and escaped. They then continued their trek for two days:   on the second day they were recaptured, but succeeded in again effecting an escape.  Their next experience was disasterous. The whole countryside was on the alert, and the party was surrounded and cut off by heavy fire. A host of soldiers and civilians had gathered with firearms to intercept them. Sgt. Gutteridge returned to Altdamn under armed escort. He received six weeks straffe. He intends making the fourth attempt, when the weather is warmer and the fruit ripe. Thousands of men have attempted escape, but, unfortunately, few have succeeded in reaching safety; many have been shot in the bush and hundreds returned to strafe. Travelling is only possible at night and the constant weeks of walking become a very severe strain. Prisoners interned in Pommern are considerably handicapped by the long distance to the frontier. The Dutch frontier is a most formidable obstacle. Sentries are posted at intervals of 100 yards and bloodhounds are employed. A stream of water runs parallel with the border and numerous Hun outposts are concealed in the scrub within range of the water. Despite these obstacles, many men have already succeeded in crossing the frontier.</p>
<p>My health improves daily, thanks to the care of the Australian Red Cross Society. I am messing with two Londoners</p>
