<p class="page" id="a3537084">[Page 84]</p>
<p>to contain nourishment. At night, Hun posterns patrol the interior of the camp as well as the outside fences. These men are very badly clothed. Their boots, especially, are always old and worn. Often during the night they visit the barracks hoping to purchase food or clothing. Astounding prices are offered for these articles. When trying to persuade one to sell or give the Hun speaks nicely and invariably asks if you need anything purchased in the town. They are the most deceitful cruel and dishonorable specimens of humanity I have even seen and not until Germany's militarism is crushed and extinct will the world be free from Hun treachery. I paid a visit to the English section of the Cemetery; the graves are carefully attended to by our own lads. During my observations, I noticed an old Hun grave, the words on the headstone read something like this "Here lies the remains of a good worker:. Work is no doubt the Hun motto. My wound is painful and inflamed. I am quite convinced that there is something concealed under the bone.</p>
<p>21st to 24th. Usual routine and monotony. On the 22nd, we saw a little excitement, an Englishmen acting as interpreter was suddenly arrested and secured by a strong armed guard. He is a staunch Briton and well-known journalist. During the period he has spent in captivity he has worked hard and under many difficulties caused by the ill-treatment and abuse received from the commandant. His health is very uncertain but the Huns will not grant him permission to leave the country. Immediately he was seized all intercourse with friends was prevented, consequently nobody knows why he was so securely guarded and removed. Possibly he succeeded in conveying useful information to English military authorities, whatever the crime, the Huns obviously cannot produce definite evidence. Some months ago a Spanish Red Cross representative visited the camp, and the man I speak of engaged him in conversation in the presence of Huns, they however, could not understand the language. No doubt this is what first aroused suspicion; luckily he has evaded the hands of the censor.</p>
