<p class="page" id="a3537099">[Page 99]</p>
<p>compelled to wear Hun uniform. His brother successfully escaped some months previous to this date; this man however, was recaptured whilst attempting to cross the Dutch frontier. His correspondence and parcels were confiscated, consequently he was unable to communicate with relatives and friends in Belgium. He stated that the Huns kept him under keen observation and the food received was not nearly sufficient to sustain his impaired health. Before we finished conversing, he suddenly told me to move off as someone was watching. Many Huns disguise in that manner, but I am quite convinced that this man is genuine.</p>
<p>5th &ndash; 8th. Patiently waiting for orders to proceed to the frontier. Aachen is only a few miles from Holland, but exchange trains take an indirect route. Hence the indefinite time of waiting. Escape from here is impossible owing to the myriads of posterns and troops stationed in the district. Until recently Mannheim was the chief exchange station. British airmen have caused considerable damage to Mannheim, consequently all important military persons have evacuated the town. My only diversion is watching the people passing to and fro in the streets below the building. Like all German towns Aachen is quite destitute of her civilian population. The exchange hospital is a magnificent building; in pre-war days it was an Engineering Institute. The joyous news came to us on the 8th. All walking cases were marched to the station and we crutch cases were conveyed in ambulances. The party consisted of one hundred and fifty for internment in Holland and thirty two for exchange to England. Pilgrim of the 51st Batt and myself were the only Australians for repatriation. Whilst standing outside the Aachen station &ndash; awaiting further instructions, many people crowded round us. My impression was that they too would like to join us. Eventually we entrained and steamed out amid cheers and shouts from the men for release. The Huns resented our jubilent display and promptly demanded silence, the order was willingly obeyed. The slow uninteresting train journey, continued until we reached a small town, one and a half miles from the frontier. I thought the journey would never end. The time was very dull. Upon receipt</p>
