<p class="page" id="a3537079">[Page 79]</p>
<p>A newspaper dated 1917 supposed to be a British edition of the continental times, was recently discovered in the camp. Obviously the paper was printed in Germany and circulated in the camps to put the wind up the British prisoners I read several absurd articles but unfortunately I took no copy of  them. I recollect enough of one of these which ran somewhat as follows:   "Many large Queues assembled in the streets of London to receive whatever food they could possibly get. During the struggle for fragments of food many people were injured. Those who managed to secure a bone, thrown to them through the bars of windows, considered themselves very fortunate. The Food Controller in his speech to the people; stated that he could prolong the war until March  provided the population assisted him to preserve the food supplies. This was possible only by strict individual economy.</p>
<p>11th &ndash; 14th. Still patiently awaiting exchange. I have managed to find another means of killing time. Every evening I visit the English barrack and have a few rubbers of Auction Bridge &ndash; an exceptional treat. During the past few days I have made the acquaintance of Lce. Cpl. Hogan, 15th A.I.F, who deserves special mention for his valuable assistance to Englishmen unable to look after themselves. Hogan has saved many lives in Altdamm. He also suffered for many months in reprisal camps and therefore, is greatly interested in others who, owing to similar maltreatment are in a helpless condition. The few weeks rest here with plenty of food received in accumulated parcels has improved his own health, although, he is still unfit for commando work. This accounts for his presence in camp. He receives medicine and special parcels containing nourishing food from the Red Cross Society, which he distributes to sick men recently returned from reprisal camps. His untiring energy, and devotion to the work are beyond all praise. I am keenly interested in his self sacrifice and devotion to his self-imposed duties and have been myself, the recipient of much assistance and kindness. During my visits to other barracks I constantly come across him in attendance on sick men. The barrack lazarette near by is crowded with English and</p>
