<p class="page" id="a3537093">[Page 93]</p>
<p>the nmber of Germans". This I did not doubt, necessity is a virtue. Comparing this man however with the Huns, I had met previously, I considered him a very decent fellow. I asked him how the German people accepted the present condition of affairs; Oh! said he "Our people are thoroughly accustomed to militarism and soft foods."    This I granted, but what of the poverty and misery, to be seen everywhere?   The question threw him offguard and he promptly changed the subject, but I owed him a few knocks. I asked him why the Germans treated the British so cruelly. He merely "Donnerwettered" to his delight the train arrived. He carried our bags to the trains and wished us all a pleasant and safe journey. Undoubtedly he wished to impress us favorably, we were returning to England. It is really marvellous how cruelty and shrewdness are combined so perfectly. Our Six foot "postern" entered the compartment and stood gazing through the widow. When an officer passed he shivered nervously and muttered inaudibly. Crowds of people flocked in and out of the trains. The percentage of properly dressed people, is small. Everybody bears the stamp of poverty and misery. After a short wait, much to my relief the train steamed out of the station. I had settled into a corner into a 3rd class filthy compartment. Two of us were using crutches and had open wounds, consequently there was little room for resting one's legs. We numbered seven in all; we suffered in silence. The thought of seeing friends and dear old England consoled us. 7 p.m. Arrived in Berlin. The "postern" informed us that we should detrain and proceed to another station. Upon alighting I walked in the rear and took advantage of seeing a little of the Hun metropolis. The station was crowded and the streets in the vicinity were similarly congested. When we had freed ourselves from the first crush the people thinned out considerably. The pedestrians were mostly military; I noticed very few men civilians. The people stared and collected round and not infrequently they spat at us; on the other hand many showed signs of interest and even ventured to speak. These people, the "postern" promptly interrupted, so we continued the journey. The Streets were exceptionally clean. I noticed in-</p>
