 [Page 40] 
 with least delay by officer under whose immediate command he was when he became non effective to A.A.G.s office at base. Effects forwarded by bags through Branch Field P-O under Bde arrangements. 
 Aust Inter Base The following Extracts from AI Base no 43 of 4th Inst. published for general use.  It is requested be promulgated in orders namely, A money order is lying unclaimed at Heliopolis P.O. for F Swindells Pt2, a regt letter is awaiting Deliv for S. Currie. 
 [Transcriber's notes References are made to various locations around Anzac Cove.  CEW Bean's volume 1, map 12, page 267 shows almost all of the gullies, ridges and other places mentioned in the above document. A.A.G. page 37 &ndash; stands for Assistant Adjutant General. A.C. or A. Corps &ndash; probably stands for Australian Corps. Ailly page 37 &ndash; This is probably Ailly-sur-Somme which is about 5kms NW of Amiens. ALHBde page 26 &ndash; is the 3rd Australian Light Horse Brigade. A.O.D page 11 &ndash; O.D is probably Ordinance Depot and the A might stand for Australian. Arras page 37 &ndash; Arras is in France, about 100kms due south of Nieupoort which is on the Belgian coast about 20kms east of Dunkirk.  General Bridges page 27 &ndash;Major General Sir William Throsby Bridges was the first Australian to reach General officer rank during WWI. He died at Gallipoli on 18 May 1915, becoming the first Australian general to be killed during the war.  Cape Helles page 10 &ndash; is the southernmost tip of the Gallipoli peninsula. C.O.O. &ndash; probably Chief Operating Officer. Courtney's Post is about 100 yards south of Quinn's post. DADOS page 7 &ndash; Deputy Assistant Director of Ordinance Services. Dixies page 10 &ndash; are square or rectangular tins used primarily for eating food.  DWHQ page 34 &ndash; probably District War headquarters G.Cmgd &ndash; General Commanding. GOC &ndash; General Officer Commanding. Green envelope page 25 &ndash; the army issued Green Envelopes in regard to which the writer had to certify 'on honour' that the letter contained no military information. These letters were for especially private affairs, which the writer might not wish his officer to see, Such letters were liable only to censorship at the Base. "Greenies" was the usual name in the War for the ordinary Army envelope, issued to men for writing home (from its colour). The letters in these were liable to censorship, first by an officer of the writer's unit and then also at the Base, and were handed in unfastened. Pte W Griffin Army number 442 &ndash; page 3.  Griffin died when a 10 ft wall of a communications trench, collapsed on him. JAG page 34 &ndash; probably Judge Advocate General and the II might mean the second ranking JAG. O.C. &ndash; Officer Commanding. P. Hill page 8 &ndash; is Pope's Hill which was about 200 yards west of Quinn's post. Maidos page 26 &ndash; is the city of Maydos which is on the other side of the Gallipoli peninsular. Pour parlons page 38 &ndash; literally "let us speak" so probably refers to informal communications with the enemy (Turks). Prymeszel page 37 &ndash; this is Przemysl in the SE corner of Poland.  HMS Queen &ndash; page 16 &ndash; HMS Queen was a London class pre-dreadnought battleship that like most of her class served in the channel, at the Dardanelles and in the Adriatic during WW1. On 25 April she was under the command of Rear Admiral CF Thursby who was in command of the Second Squadron of the fleet that supported the Gallipoli landings. With HMS London and HMS Prince of Wales she was used to transport 1,500 men from the Australian 3rd Brigade to their landing beach. RQMS &ndash; Regimental Quartermaster Sergeant Scantlings page 14 &ndash; are small pieces of timber used in construction.    SHQ page 12 &ndash; Signals Headquarters. Unsinga page 11 &ndash; this is the Umsinga, a steamship belonging to the Natal Direct Line, so named because the ships sailed from England to Durban, bypassing Cape Town.  Uise page 37 &ndash; is the River Oise which runs through the Champagne region. 
 [Transcribed by Miles Harvey for the State Library of New South Wales] 