a6692031.html



1917
27


March 24
Left at 5.15 fed up.  Had tea in billet.  Rang up Mrs Linley from Post Office, as usual.  Returned to billet to read.  No news yet.


March 25
Parade 9.30.  Breakfast in billet.  The usual Sunday treat.  Church till 11.  Home.  Dinner.  Read all afternoon.  Tea at Rec. Room.  Home again and spent evening in billet yarning and reading.


March 26
Parade 8.  Beastly cold and raw morning.  Went to the Ford with party and helped to span the river with a bridge.  Snowing and sleeting all the time left at 2 for home for equipment for draft.  Had mine and got tidied.  Rang Mrs Linley.  Tea.  Spent evening in billet reading "The Money Spider."


March 27
Parade 8.  Nice bright morning.  Worked on revetments all day near Church.  Left 4.15.  Tea.  7.30 went to Foresters Hall to Prize Distribution for Sports.  Did "Tommy Atkins" and "Devil May Care" as contribution to the program.  Returned to billet at 9.  Heard draft is to go to-morrow.  Don't know if I am on it.  Wrote to Mrs Linley my farewell letter.


March 28
Parade 8.  Find only three men of our section are on the draft.  Rest came a thud, as all my pals, with the exception of two or three, have gone.  Feel very down in the mouth at the prospects of being separated from my chums on the other side.  Put on fatigues all day at Forresters Hall washing up and cleaning out the place, with its usual once-a-week thoroughness.  After tea rang Mrs Linley and then said Au Revoir to the boys who were going away to-night.  Had toothache all day and decided to visit Dentist on the morrow.  Returned to billet and spent evening, in spite of jawache, reading.  Went bed at 9.30 and had very little, if any, sleep all night.


March 20
Parade 8.  Church farm till 10.30 when toothache got too bad to stand.  Saw Sgt. Hadley and got his permiss-ion and Majoy Gregson's to go to see the Dentist.  Did so and he drew the tooth as being useless.  It might have been to him.  It had begun to abcess and my face was very sore.  I longed for sympathy from somebody, but there was none to be had and, after having a cup of tea at the billet for my lunch, I again set out for the old Church grounds, well guarded against any risk of catching cold in my face.  After answering my name at the parade, Sgt Nobes told me to go home.  I returned to billet, shaved, washed my mouth out with Peroxide and then crawled into bed and had a sleep.  I felt much relieved and better when I awakened.  Sat by the fire till tea time.  Had tea.  Rang up Mrs Linley and returned to billet to spend evening there reading and writing.  Feel as well to-night as I did ill this morning.  That was d-- crook.



 