a6692024.html



1917
20


 
Castle and Museum, Town Hall, etc.  Bought books of all the sights to send home to give them some idea of the beauty and historical interest of this famous old City.  After roaming round until dusk, we had a light tea and caught the 6.30 train back to Brightlingsea, arriving there about 7.15 after having spent a most enjoyable day.  Found out that Herb Larsen is in barracks at Colchester on a Physical Culture and Bayonet instruction course.  He expects to return to Brightlingsea on Saturday next.


Feb 4
Parade 9.30.  Church.  Spent rest of day in billet writing mail home, as it is too cold to put one's nose outside the door.  Sent books of views and cards home.


Feb 5
Parade 8.  Snowing heavily.  Marched to mine fields through the snow, 4 miles.  Very cold but quite a beautiful sight to see all the snow hanging from the trees drooping under the weight of their white mantle.  Started work after lecture and worked all day in spite of the snow which fell continuously all day.  Spent evening in billet writing.  Had letter from O. G. Brooke, the first I have received from him.  Very pleased to be at last in touch with someone whom I will have the pleasure of meeting when I go up to London.


Feb 6
Parade 8.  Very cold morning again.  Mining fields all day.  Left there 2 for town.  Dismissed at 3.  Went to billet.  Had tea.  Left billet 5.30.  Parades at 6.  Marched to Church and did some wire entanglement drill in the dark till 7.45.  Returned to town and dismissed at 8.15.  Returned to billet and spent rest of evening writing.  Letters from home.


Feb 7
Parade 8.  Cold day but fine.  Went to Recreation Ground for Jerks.  Stayed there 45 minutes.  From there went out to mine fields.  Spent all day there on trenches etc.  Returned town 4.15.  Got papers from home.  Spent evening in billet after posting mail home.  Got first intimation of official news of Arthur Goold's death.  Feel better to-day than I have for some time past.  Feet still very sore and tired.


Feb 8
Parade 8.  Rifle drill till 9.  Then to mine fields.  Spent day on mining.  Very cold and bitter wind blowing.  Left there 3.15.  Got big bunch of home mail.  Feel terribly elated at so much mail from the home end.  Had hot bath and spent evening reading and writing to various friends and relations.


Feb 9
Parade 8.  Robinson and I told off to write passes.  Went to billet this time and did the job for fear we would again be discovered and sent flying to our work.  Left town at 11.  Arrived mine fields noon.  Had dinner on arrival there - such as it was - two pieces of dry bread with a piece of cheese between the first



 