a6692056.html



1917
52


Dec 7
Not too well.  Have the blues, and off color generally.  Slept most of day and got up after tea.


Dec 8
Better to-day.  Dr Stanley marked me for Blighty.  Rather elated at idea of going.  Reidy also marked.  Got up after tea and sat by fire.  Had cake for supper sent by Mr Brooke.


Dec 9
Feel tip top.  Expect to go to-day.  Packed up all ready for departure.  After tea got up and word came to leave for Blighty at 8.30.  Got ready.  Left hospital at 9 pm.  Got on train at Etaples and arrived at Le Havre next night at 10.  A very tiring and monotonous trip.  Getting on to a nice boat seemed like a dream.


Dec 10
In train all day.  Sick of it.  Boarded s.s. "Panama" as cot case bound for Southampton and more hospital.  Left Le Havre at midnight.  Was asleep in my lifebelt.


Dec 11
Arrived Southampton early morning.  Got off steamer at 3 and entrained for Birmingham, where I went into ward A4 2/1 General Hospital.  Very glad to get into  hospital after the long and tedious journey.  Slept all night after a good supper.


Dec 12
Feel fairly well.  After dressing felt better.  After dinner wrote letters.  Visiting day.  Many kind folks around the wards distributing nice things.  Miss the many comforts I had in the hospital I lately vacated.  Yearn to be back there.  Had tea and a good night's sleep.


Dec 13
Feel better.  After dressing side felt much better.  Taken for X-Ray, but, being too weak to sit up, was returned to cot.  Slept all afternoon and wrote letters after tea.


Dec 14
Feel fairly good.  Went to X-Ray room and had face rayed to locate metal in jaw.  Got Red Cross kit bag.  Wrote letters after tea.


Dec 15
Feel good.  Better than I have since I arrived.  Had shorter and larger tube put in side.  Had some home mail which cheered me up.


Dec 16.
Feel good.  Terrible day outside.  Wind, rain and snow in plenty.  Job to keep warm in bed even.  Visiting day again.  No visitors for me.  Felt a bit out of it.  People I had expected to come were barred by the weather.  Money from London not yet to hand.  Absolutely stoney broke.


Dec 17
Feel good.  Did not sleep too well.  Got home parcel.  Nice day outside.  Great change on yesterday.  Lot of snow lying about.  Unable to write as it is too nippy.



 