a6692029.html



1917
25


March 13
and enjoying the comforts of a real home life once again.  Found Mrs Linley very sick with 'flu.


Marh 14
Rose 7.30.  Breakfast 9.  Left for London at 10.  Took tube to Baker Street station.  Got Motor Bus to Marble Arch and Hyde Park and walked through city via Oxford Street, Holborn, Cheapside to St Paul's.  Went through the cathedral - a magnificent place.  Saw over the famous Guildhall.  Went through the meat markets at Smithfield via the Fleet Street Viaduct.  Saw over Old Bow Church, St Bartholomew's Church and Hospital.  Had luncheon at Lyons. Saw Bank of England, Mansion House, Stock exchange, Trafalgar Square, National Gallery, Museum.  Spent afternoon at a matinee at the Coliseum.  Met Mr Linley afterwards and called to see Mrs Forsyth.  Arrived back at home after having spent a very full and most enjoyable day.  Spent evening at pianola and turned in at 11.45.


March 15
Rose 8.  Breakfast 9.  Left home 10.  Caught bus from Crown at Cricklewood for Victoria Station.  Got off at Victoria and Grosvenor Hotel and met Mr Brooke there at 11.  Went to Austtralian Headquarters at Horseferry Road and met Davidson, who got my permit to visit Dovercourt.  Went round Lambeth Bridge and saw Houses of Parliament.  Saw over Westminster Abbey.  A most enjoyable and memorable visit with much of interest to the student of history and tradition.  Saw Cromwell's Statue near Houses of Parliament.  Got bus along the route of the War Office, Downing St., and all the hub of the universe.  Lunched.  Spent afternoon at theatre again, seeing Oscar Asche in "Chu Chin Chow", with Mr Brooke.  He paid.  A great show.  Had coffee after and took bus to Marble Arch.  Took bus from there home.  Had dinner and spent evening at home pretty much the same as I did last night.


March 16
Rose 9.  Had breakfast and left for town at 10 from the Crown per bus with Mr Linley.  Went all round the Thames Embankment and on to London Bridge to see the view of the wharves and docks.  Lunched.  Left Mr. Linley and spent the next hour or two wandering among the mysterious and fascinating Tower of London.  Met Mr Brooke at Grosvenor at 3, as arranged.  Introduced him to Mr Linley.  We then set out through Hyde Park.  Saw Buckingham Palace, Queen Victoria Monument.  St. James Palace, Bond Street.  Had afternoon tea.  Called again on Mrs Forsyth to say good bye, and made homeward arriving there 6.45.  Mrs Linley not too good.  Spent evening at home.  Got word that Jim Johnson had left for the front.


March 17
Rose 8.  Went for a walk with Mrs Linley.  Saw Lord Aberdeen's Dollis Hill Home, where the great and eminent Gladstone used to spend so much of his time in tree felling.  Caught tram to Hendon with Mr. Linley to see the Aero works.  Returned home for dinner.



 