a6692049.html



1917
45


Aug 28
Wet and very windy.  At signalling all day.  News of Italy's smashing defeat on the Isonzo Front to hand.  Good batch of mail from home.


Aug 29
Left billet for Aire 9.30.  For heavy training on canal.  Wet, on and off, all day.  On picquet on arrival from 1.30 to 4.30.  11.30 to 2.30.  Advised by Lt Clarke that John cannot be transferred on account of his being attached to an Infantry regiment or unit.  Spent hour in C. A. hut reading and smoking.  Returned to quarters - our billet being a huge barge - for rest ready to go on picquet at 11.30 pm.


Aug 30
Came off picquet early morning and awakened feeling very tired.  Still dull and nasty.  Day off for picquet relief.  Rode to Arcques after tea to see John and tell him about transfer.  Saw him and handed him home mail.  Not upset about transfer going awry.  Returned to barge at 7.30 and wrote rest of evening.


Aug 31
Heavy bridging all day.  Went to Sercus on dental in afternoon.  Did not get attended to even after the muddy ride across.  Saw Lt Dumas.Yet again all day.  Had hot bath in town after tea.  Also haircut.


Sept 1
Dental in morning to Tommy Hospital across the canal.  This was, in pre-war days a French prison and rumor has it that Dreyfus was imprisoned there before being sent to Devil Island.  It certainly looks like it as the rooms are all cell-like with heavily-barred windows.  Got nerve-killing dressing in my tooth.  Spent rest of cold and damp day on bridging.


Sep 2
Still at heavy bridging.  Got pay 1/9/4.  Did washing on deck after dinner.  Jack came over from Arcques.  Went up town for stroll and met Len Anderson.  All 3 went round town and returned to barge.


Sep 3
Bridging all day again.  Morning making ready.  After-noon getting gear in place.  Nice fine day.  Quite a change to the weather of late.


Sept 4
Usual thing.  After tea went up town and met Billy Caldwell.  Spent rest of evening on the craft.


Sept 5
Bridging again.  2.30.  Fell in and marched back to Sercus again to our old billet glad to think we had done with this heavy work.  Hot march and tiring.


Sept 6
Signalling all morning.  After dinner, Gas drill and gas lecture by Lt Clarke.  Heavy thunderstorm after tea.  Fall of Riga reported from Russian front.


Sept 7
Signalling.  Afternoon.  Bath parade and did washing.


Sept 8
Signalling morning.  Got boots mended in afternoon.



 