a6692045.html



1917
41


July 7
ball match between 14th and 15th Companies.  Former won it easily.


July 8
Wet.  Parade.  Dismissed.  Had feed of French pastry.  Practice for concert on Wednesday.  After tea, went to Fouillet for walk along with Tim Woods.  Bought Post cards of village.


July 9
Parade 8.  Had to guide Pioneers to Pontoon Grounds for pontoon instruction.  Spent whole of morning there.  Afternoon, practice for Concert.


July 10
On leave to Amiens again.  Herb and Tim came with me.  Left Corbie by train at 9.15 and spent day in the beautiful city.  Bought souvenirs and had them sent home from there.  Had good day and arrived back at Corbie about 9.30.


July 11
Pontooning all morning.  Concert practice all afternoon.  Had group photo of section taken at the Chateau at 5.  Concert in hall at 8.  Did "Lasca." and Lichtenberg" which were well received.  Good show.  Good house.  Did "Lasca" in character.


July 12
On fatigues.  Heard that the King would pass through Corbie this morning.  Waited for an hour or more but he did not show up.  Did washing.  Spent rest of day writing.


July 13
At pontoon grounds all the day.  Had good swim in the afternoon, which was very enjoyable.


July 14
Trestle bridging all day.  Rather hard work.


July 15

Route march in morning.  Afternoon, pay 2/8/8.
After tea, went to pontoon gounds to lend a hand with pile-driving work until 9.  Returned to town and turned in.



July 16
Pile-driving all morning.  Wet on and off all day.  Cut out at 3.  Very strenuous work.


July 17
Drill.  Fell out for boot repairs in morning.  Spent all day in billet reading and waiting for my boots.


July 18
Dull.  Spent day on canal and pontooning.  8th Brigade tested our work by marching over our pontoon bridges with all their transport.  Stood the strain all right.  They billetted in Corbie for the night.


July 19
Pontoon grounds all day.  14th Brigade crossed over bridges.  Drill all day.


July 20
Pontoon grounds all day.  A. S. C. crossed over bridges


July 21
Pontoon grounds again.  Raised a pile in afternoon.  General Birdwood came over and inspected us while at


