  
 October 9 41. Entering in the dug-out:  between blankets, and with an issue of Rhum by the side.  If the transport only knew. 
 Walking over from the store, it was a walk by gun-flash light, there's another terrible bombardment on - one long loud echoing booming. 
 Today the three 12th boys left for their Batt.  Garrey and Murph and that other chap,.. three Tasmanians and good company. In their place some of the 4th Division A.S.C. - attached to the Engineers. 
 The bombardment on our front, this morning at the Ypres station, talking to Les, he dressing one of the 2nd Divy., I spoke of the reported relief of tomorrow, the Inf. boy took me up.  "Are they returning us too?  God, I'll cry if they don't:  its bloody murder there." 
 Over their putties they're wearing wound sandbags, & the mud covers their legs to the thighs. 
 Two peoples, or funds all the Division thanks go to, to the Comforts Fund, and to the Y.M.C.  At the Menin Road and Ypres their coffee and cocoa, and the cigarettes and biscuits come to the men when their worth is beyond estimate. 
 Devonshire Camp Billets 
 42.  Oct. 10, 11 "He was a man who controlled his fear, so that you didn't know of it:  but he told us he was wordy - though he didn't look it!"  Wilky tonight on Hunt. 
 The Bearers are back, and in a hut at Devonshire camp.  I'm with them again, with a brazier in the middle and the sweet smell of burning wood, the evening ends in a yarning from between blankets. 
 But Ernie and Paddy are dead...sapper and Nick and Toby and dozens of others who made our brazier nights last year at Flers and Longueval are away and in the next huts new reinforcements take their places. 
 Oct. 11 43. This morning at 8.30, issued with underpants and shirt, new.  Then on to Baths, and a hot wash.  Last night we were a crowd of unshaven, unwashed roughs, we're almost presentable now, though trousers are torn and putties and boots mud caked.  Boots are all more or less well worn, and we've no bootmakers.  Jimmy was killed early in the first stunt by the D.S. on Menin Road. 
 Idiot French, Jargon French, jabbering French.  Retaliation Farm, Sanctuary wood, Identification lines.  Names of terrible suggestion. 