  
 October 16 57. Mail yesterday from the T.B.C., "The Collected Works of P.H. Pearse" and "My Childhood" of Maxim Ghorki ...  'Pearse' I sold to Frank. .. 'My Childhood' I wrote for early in our Henencourt days... and it arrived yesterday.  I loaned it to Bob, he being in the Post Office, and being keen on the Russian schools. 
 Toby back yesterday... only to Etaples to the No. 1 Canadian General, and he brings reports of its being a most terrible place, Mills with him, and Radis.  Mills was evacuated sick early in this last terrible stunt. 
 Ernie Brown died of his wounds on the hospital train, after weeks at the C.C.S. 
 'Requiescat in Pace'. 
 58. Mail, a letter from Nick - from the 3rd Aust. Aux., doing well, and expecting his furlough, which he intends' to spend the time in Ireland.' 
 The day ends coldly, and a wind has blown heavy clouds over the skies...grayness of sky and grayness of earth - rising mist. 
 In the hut six playing Rakish Kate, or some such fantastically named card game. 
 Outside the wind. 
 October 16 59. A Route March this morning, about the camp and about and about.  An aimless wandering along mud cobbles and mud roads.  In two-deep formation, with Carnty my coverer.  Always, with or without pack, on a Route March, unless the country is lovely and un-scarr'd. I lose all the distance, my thoughts always with books:  those I have, those I've read, those I'm only waiting for. 
 This morning I was arranging, and shelving that collection of my dreams, of books of all periods, manner and forms. 
 Side by side "The Green Carnation" and "The Autobiography of a Boy" - each quietly laughing with the other.... and telling of their exquisite satires.... Collins and 'Pepys' superbly bragging of conquests and their art. .. A.C. Benson alongside his beloved Walter Pater, and separated by "The Sixth Art" next to "The Seven Lamps of Architecture" - in its time rubbing shoulders with 'The Adventurous Simplicissimus' alongside Swinburne or Browning.  And Cuala Press, W.B. Yeats books by 'The Golden Ass' and Vale Press, Morris by Bains' Indian Tales. 
 All the charming, grotesque, loveable and beautiful writers, and poets and philosophers all happy in their placing, side by side. 