  
 October 27 6 a.m.  Over the stunting - the guns still lewdly alive - the skies of the most wounderful mist grey-blue.. and through the thin poplars, just rising in rich white palely tipped mass- lovely clouds...the lightning of the guns for a while made sudden sponging of quick pale yellow. 
 89. 6 p.m.  A Boche plane just over, and his bombs dropped near the station... entering in bed.: In the dugout tonight, the argument strong again on respective casualties of the different countries' Troops... words: words, and windy words. 
 There are two words in the A.I.F's vocabulary - two inimitable words, emphatic, picturesque.  Rabelaisian and of a distinct meaning all their own. 
 A Review by Birdwood, and an address:  one of Mr. Bean's reports, and Sir Douglas Haig's congratulations, and one of these characteristic words. 
 In the terrible elation that follows, I hate myself, hate and feel curses almost rise, that even I try to impartially judge. 
 Always I hark back to the Arts, and for their achievances, try and ponder them, and then comes the knowledge we of necessity do the same - our damned duties report each day the bombing of "enemy hutments and Billets".  And tonight terrible nightmares have been from a successful, Christ 'successful'! - a successful, God the word shivers horror, bombing of enemy hutments and billets. 
 Tears came and sobs... and I couldn't help them... dressing a shattered body, out in the night, by the cold hard thin light of the moon. 
 Hatred surges up, and the while you're cutting blood and mud soaked tunics - feeling life blood thick on the stretcher, & winding white gauze over slowly welling blood and a muddied wound.  Stretchers in the ankle mud - and their mates around the chaps they've carried over....  "Any hasn't been dressed" - "Over here digger." 
 Oh God, if I die I'm Australian. 
 And then poor bodies lie under blankets... two chaps came over to me and said, "he died mate!  What will we do - he only came out of the line tonight, can we take him away in the morning!"  And I wrote the dead boy's 