  
 November 5 106. This morning spent sketching - another trial for the Anzac Bulletin.  The old sketch of Toby:  writing in our billet at Henencourt the body of sketch, added to it some pictures from La Vie Parisienne... 
 Dear Liza - the pictures in the new billet make it quite like home! ... In the dugout at Factory Corner, the first day in, Billy sacrificed for the general good a dozen Kirchner cards he'd carried with him.-  "We'll put them up in the dugout and make it look like home!" 
 Wrote to Bakers for "Chastelard" of Swinburne's.. I'll post tomorrow.  Mail from M.D.S. not yet up. 
 This morning I sketched about here for an hour - result [indecipherable] of wounded. 
 107. Mail:  letter of Sept. 1 from Mat, and acknowledgment from T.B.C. of 1.1.0, also catalogue of reduced novels.  Finished - by the receiving of two 'La Vie Parisiennes', sketch started this morning. 
 In No. 38 of Anzac Bulletin two sketches by Dyson:  M.D.S. at Vaux, and cross to 4th Batt. at Pozieres.  Two finely suggestive impressionistic sketches:  must try the style. 
 Tonight shelling again hereabouts.  Must subscribe to La Vie:  the drawing by one Rene Vincent exceptionally fine:  a style to aspire towards. 
 November 5, 6 108. "Much later I realised that Russian people, because of the poverty and squalor of their lives, love to amuse themselves with sorrow - to play with it like children, and are seldom ashamed of being unhappy.  Amidst their endless week days, grief makes a holiday, and a fire is an amusement - a scratch is an ornament to an empty face."  "My Childhood", Gorki. 
 Tonight I'll read it - and from even a casual looking through it, I discovered several most terrible thumb-nail sketches - "Although he was usually talkative, good natured and merry, there were times when his eyes became bloodshot and green, dim and fixed, like the eyes of a dead person, and he would sit, huddled up in a corner, morose and as dumb as his nephew." 
 The idea of the Russian people being almost enamoured with sorrow is illuminating.  Certainally judging from Gorki's and Artzibashef's  and Tolstoi's [ novels and plays this is the case:  Almost through all I've read there's been the obsession of sex and death. 
 109.  November 6 A nightmare last night, with all the horror of reality about it:  of Father, Billy and Geoff:  Geoff was only dimly of the dream, Betty's was the big place.  The dream was of the country, by the 