
October 20, 2173.Bob has loaned me Ogilive's "The Australian".  This morning at the Y. [indecipherable].. copied out Poems of Brooke, 'The Bush'.
Of its kind a decent little book of running verse...readable but not read with the enjoyment of Watson..Masefield... or any of the other great present minor Poets.
Of Australians I place a woman - Nina Murdoch, as our sweetest 'Minor Poet'.
74.Underwood leaving the Ambulance yesterday to join up the O.T.C. Oxford, took over with him to post to Mr. Hadley, my third journal - July to Sept. 28.
75.  October 22Yesterday - a day lost, and there's no memory to write it up from...  One thing only.. from the Y.M.C.A. borrowed E.F. Benson's 'David Blaize' - and read it, to the chapter where the Head reads to the form Keats "Ode to a Nightingale":  then in a remorse for my not reading him of late, and of a full desire for the full loveliness of the two exquisite Odes, I passed David Blaize for the Everymans edition... and I read to commit to memory the first two verses of the Ode to a Grecian Urn.
And now I covenant with myself - and though I've done it many times since - again to learn each day that passes some verse or beautiful company of lines.  And tonight I change the philosophy of Omar Khayham for the following of Thomas A'Kempis... and from now will look only for the beautiful, where before I've seen only the meanness.
Nick shall be my example.
October 2276.About here - the Scottish Lines, Dominion and Devonshire, raids solidly till about 10.  The first raiders seemed to have got over without any notice being taken of them:  it was still quite light, and the only planes up seemed our own - the old Busse going over with bombs.  About two miles away we heard dropped bombs.. then one of our own scouts planed down above us, signalling with his dismall mournful hum.. then suddenly a hundred bombs seemed loosed on us somewhere just out of our camp... in reality they were a fair and quite a safe distance, away.  Early this morning rain filled the air, and so sleep was quiet till the [indecipherable] commenced their usual "Hymn of Hate".
In the hut the subject 'Gertie' - Col. Graham Butler of the 3rd Field.  "There was old Gertie up at the sunken road - logging out  the bandaging!"  It's a pity we've not a few more like him.  "They say he led a charge at the peninsular - in only his shorts!"