
November 10, 12119."They can drive Motor Cars - but I'm - if they can drive horses!", Mills on the Tommy transport, just arrived - and already buggered.  We heard them coming down by the side of the Marquee like a lot of Gyppos routed.. then "Y're - nhow!"  Somehow a Tommy swearing is always horrible:  They curse with no saving satiric grace.  Between Blankets...
Mail - Australia, and a letter of Sept. 9 from Mother...  Betty's going to some Lawson Boarding School - the flat's not yet started, and a print from a photograph of the Dad.  Yesterday would have been his birthday.
Sol and Les following are telling tales..."Where'd y'er get the feevers Liza?"  "Off an Aussy!""Lucky --!"
All day long the guns have been firing:  all day long clouds have been closing over and heavy rain has been falling...still tonight against the wind and the long booming carries.
120.Renescure, November 11Night - after a long 'Bus' and route march from Dickebusch - somewhere near Saint Omer-
RENESCURE, November 11.12 in our old Barn Billet, with great openings in the roof's thatching - clear patches of rich starr'd blue in the high shadows.
Tomorrow we entrain....  Tired for writing tonight.. but the trip was a sheer joy - through most magnificent autumnal tapestries...
November 12121.Yesterday... marched off from the C.M.D.S. about 10, to Winnipeg Camp:  there en-buss'd with the third Brigade - attached to them since Sec Bois... we at the head of a long column....  By a wounderful stroke of luck and good management managed a top seat...  From Abelle to Steenvoorde, a long straight oak bordered and then poplar lined roadway, the bordering trees magnificent brown and gold and crimson, and pale yellow and dying greens - great lovely blackened trees of lovely massed dying foliage.  Then towards Cassell...never such magnificence of Autumn...was as lovely as the Rhone valley that first Spring we passed by it. Cassell... now as it was yesterday- a pale cold sun softly hazing it - an adventure to live with The Blue Mosque, Aix Cathedral, the hills behind Marseille, the country behind Wimille by Wimereux and York Minster.....