
November 20135.The night of the 18th, read in bed, Masefield's "Good Friday":  rather disappointing - though the Madman a richly fine character.  Pages 44, 45, & 46 high above the remainder.  More of a dramatic essay than "A play in verse".
The night of the 19, the first play of Tagore's "Sacrifice" collection...  A Noh play of Nature triumphant... its rapid ending was a shock, reading I turned the page for its continuing.. then I slept on it...
To night I'll read 'Sacrifice' again. .. Chastelard I'll put aside for reading when all I have is through.
Today I wrote to T.B.C. for Babfords Building Construction Elementry.  The first chance I see I'll try for a drafting job on staff - the unit's rotten through and through - the officers more ridiculous than socialistic amateurs.  Yesterday morning on parade the Colonel shifty and poor, all his statements for a permanent guard etc. being totally ignored by the W.O. - the only Military man in the whole show:  not that Militarism is necessary, but a certain amount of unit spirit and discipline should somewhere obtain.
November 20Yesterday's mail, the T.L.S's Nov. 8 and 15, announcement of column 'John YKats' - 18/-.
This afternoon a kit inspection, general borrowing front and rear lines... of sox, shirts, etc., a farce ridiculously gone through - a farce and an indignity.
136.Billeted in high hilly and deep valley'd country of perfect colours under grey skies...wide landscape Hardy would write well of.
The Billet a long divided up barn - one of three forming the side of a great quadrangle, the cottage closing the fourth.  In the square - all roughly cobbled and unevenly sunken a great mud, manure, straw and filth heap and rising from the centre of it all, a decayed dovecot....  our fatigue yesterday and today clearing up where the rotting heap too far trespassed.  A smelly dirty job - especially for the Aristocrats.
Clarrie, Bill Tell and self, in for Boulogne leave for Thursday... Ambulance wagon from here:  3 from each section, two transports.
Mail today so far nothing heard of:  box open now for ordinary envelopes.