  
 November 3, 4 103. For a walk to Vlamertinghe with Harry, and missed pay while away...  On duty tomorrow.  Harry promises to relieve me during the afternoon so the intention is a trip to Dickebusch.  Vlamertinghe and thereabouts Canadians.  Through the town lorries and cars of wounded.. evidently they've just stunted. 
 The church a shell, the tower only two sides remaining... in one place a picturesque ruin.  Only one sketch is there, the altar place of the side aisle, and the skeleton ugly tracing window, a side door leading to a bapistry, and across its opening a line, on it a washed shirt and a pair of sox... 
 The word comes from the C.M.D.S. of Major Frizzel's wounds having turned septic, and he dying. 
 The bearers are out, and were down here this afternoon... they go in again on Monday or Tuesday.  Sol has dreamed twice of his being killed.. he is the last of the alliance.  Frank has gone on leave, Bill is transferred to the tent section and Peter is for Australia. 
 104.  November 4 Early morning, day dressing before the commencement of the day's sick parade.  Humphreys last night self evacuated to C.C.S.  Grey cold mist, and grey cold skies.  Last night at the C.M.D.S. a dinner in the officers mess to Maj. Kirkwood - his birthday - "-an' 'e went to bed at 9 an' the dinner was in aid of 'im, an' it lasted till 12" and Maj. Lee's D.S.O. and his transfer to office of A.D.M.S. - Stack going back to Australia.  Gabrielle in the dugout this morning asking one of the Batmen if Lee had told the tale of his taking of a pill box with an Inf. boy - made a wonderful Bull:  hearing it I instantly decided on writing to T.B.C. for Sheridan's Plays.  Gabrielle told the tale - and indeed - "That's Tig in origin!" 
 105. To Dickebusch for [indecipherable], mail & a change.  Mail - a return of the drawing I sent in to the Anzac Bulletin...  "The difficulty is as we are an official paper, 1st Anzacs might take exception to us encouraging insubordination:  it seems far fetched, but that is the position".  The sketch was of irony:  their reply fuller.  Of the three Frank sent in, one has been accepted for immediate use, new jokes are asked for the other two.  For the last - by far the better of the three - "In the Rain". I suggested - 
 "Sydney Harbour?" "Um ... the Yarra!" 
 Mail yesterday evening a letter of Aug. 19 from Mother. 