  
 October 22 "Really it was in two days that ended in his only possessing his trousers and boots and sox - shirt, tunic - everything else had gone towards dressings!" 
 "Do you remember at [indecipherable]? - put on their tickets 'Dressing Station under heavy shell fire' - and send them on!" 
 "He's a good man is Gertie - and he looks after his men!" 
 77. A wounderful mail:  one dear letter from Mother of Sept. 6 - written hurriedly to catch a suddenly heard of mail:  one from Billy - in Blighty and doing well full of his old easy cheeriness, and one note from Elsie... And.... from the T.B.C. 'Certain Noh Plays of Japan' from the Cuala Press..and ending with a delightful note - 
 '..finished on the twentieth day of July, in the year of the Sinn Fein rising, nineteen hundred and sixteen.' 
 Now of the Cuala books I've "Passages from the Letters of J.B. Yeats", "Reveries over Childhood & Youth", W.B. Yeats, "Synge:  An Impression by John Masefield" - the wounderful poet on the exquisite dramatist... these if these mails have not been torpoeded. 
 And from Henderson,s, Shaw's 'Sanity of Art', Vernide's "War Poems" and "Poems", Alan Seeger. 
 Vernide I think is 'dud' - except for one beautiful poem, To an English Sheep Dog.. which approaches - in a handling of homely sentiment, to the magnificence of Hodgson's "The Bull". 
 And from Beaumonts, a most courteous note:  Index their newpress edition is 10/6... To-Day by a misprint printed 1/6...  They await my instructions...but before noting this write of 1st edition of Masefield, of J.C. Squire and Hodgson's Poems... the latter at half a guinea. 
 Buck's to blame for the altered dating of the last entries... last night in bed, starting to enter up, he informed me it was the 22, his manner left no room or reason for doubt... so after all I've not 'lost a day'. 
 The day fine, and full of quietness, no Boche have yet been over:..  as yet.  The rumour of last night - that five Zeps had been brought down raiding London is true.... but the French had the doing of it. 