  
 November 13 Somewhere about 18 miles marched in the day, through lovely country and on a lovely day...  clouds filled the sky, so the sun was cold...  The roads over high hills across lovely valleys, and stretching to long straight lines over high lands. .. Early in the afternoon, climbing a high hill, we rested awhile by a hayrick.. rich yellow land & brown stretching to a valley bright with the sun shining straight into it till the distance lost itself in blue and purple shadows,.. and faintly throbbing down the air came the long pulsations of big guns..... 
 Billeted in a room of the Farmhouse - about 25 of us in all.  Candlelight and firelight - a fine old tiled open fireplace between high pannelled cupboards and a brazier burning...all over the red tiled floor coats, books, packs and equipment paraphanilia thrown in heaps... outside a huge mud stretch, and the road. 
 Last night a mail drawn from the villiage:  one of Mother's Sep. 6 and 14 and from Betty Sep. 24...  Oh Mother myne, you pitied the poor postman bringing home all my books,..but you say not a word what books. .. Betty's Princess Badoura arrived, so far Mother's Bag missing.  A letter to Mother from Geoff enclosed & Mother's card from Mrs. Stafford and the Nov. "To-Day". 
 November 14, 15 125. Learn today from Johnson the name of the nearest villiage, 'Ecuire'. 
 This morning wrote to "The Practical School of Correspondence" to the T.B.C. for "Second Diary of the Great Warr" by Sml. Pepys Jnr. - the first 'diary' is in its 7th edition & Robert's "Twenty Six Poems" from Grant Richards.  Posted too, two letters I've been carrying from Belgian Battery Corner. 
 126. This afternoon after Blanket issue parade a walk along and about with the two Franks....  Lovely sunken and valley roads, beautiful with autumn, long lines of bordering trees, tiny twigs losing their branching lines in a mist of faintness, in the twilight faintly blue-purple, the rich reds and browns soft blurs of colour.  An afternoon of real beauty around us, a sense of quiet waiting over it all. 
 Blue Herring, a dying sun ray on his head, a Mythopon of Autumn. 
 Night - in the billet a wood fire, quietness, cards and low talkings. .. Tommy has a mail sorting for us, to be given out at 7.30, in half an hour's time. 
 Keats' "Ode to Autumn". 
 November 15 126. Two years ago the prospect of France excited us:  one year ago we were fondly imagining a wintering in England:  now rumour riots of the A.I.F. for Italy!!! 