East of Amiens.
Incidents of the August Battle.
The Barrage and the Fog.
Australians? Splendid Part.
(By Napier)
In the Field, August 156, 1918
Long will Australians remember the 8th of August, 1918, as the opening phase of broad-fronted attack which swept the Hun out of miles of French country north and south of the Somme. The night before was pitch-dark. I had been marshalling companies of an assaulting battalion on to a jumping-off tape line. At intervals through the night the inky blackness was broken by brilliant German flares fired from posts 200 to 400 yards away. But practiced warriors know that to stand still when the flare is burning is to avert hostile fire. A few indifferent spirits kept moving, and "Cr-r-r-k!" would break a burst of machine-gun fire, happily without luck for the Hun gunners.
Before the appointed hour we were all in position, awaiting the signal that artillery proclaims to Heaven and earth. The ground was sodden from recent rain; heavy clouds obscured the stars, and towards zero hour a dense fog swept over the landscape, shrouding in tantalising gloom all objects more than 10 yards away. Would it spoil the attack? Even the brightest of German flares was but a feeble glow.
Our Barrage Opens.
A few minutes of tense waiting. Men up all night, recumbent in shell-holes, bits of trenches, folds in the grounds, are drowsy towards dawn. They know what is ahead of them, but we have been fortunate in forming up without casualties. The feeling that one's mates are roundabout strengthens mutual confidence. They are all "Diggers", and shall be as undaunted at the end of this day as now, before the grey light begins. The fog thickens. But this is a wide-fronted assault, and must go on. Straight out from the tape are the lairs of the fore; that is enough. "Crack!" burst the machine-guns ? not one, but hundreds ? and simultaneously, like a thunder-clap, roars the mighty volume of the barrage. One hundred yards in front is the curtain of shell-fire. Three deafening minutes of near shell-bursts, while screaming overhead go the heavier calibres for counter-battery work, and more distant targets. Up go the Hun flares, but what avail? The fog wraps them in invisibility, and the foe's artillery makes but a feeble response on his own initiative. Our shells begin to fall more forward, creeping over his outposts, bits of trenches, machine-guns and snipers? nests, and trench-mortar holes. Rumbling up through the gloom come on tanks, sufficiently far behind the barrage to avoid damage from our own high explosive.
Forward Through Fog.
And now is the turn of the infantry. With bayonets fixed, eyes and ears alert for the enemy, and a swinging stride, these splendid Australians move forward. But the fog is denser than ever, the smoke shells fired by our own guns to screen the assaulting waves are as coals brought to Newcastle, and the thickness is augmented by the smoke of thousands of bursting shells. Officers can but use their judgment, met get detached and lost. Tanks lose their way in the gloom. It is daybreak, but the light is of little use. Gradually and systematically the barrage creeps ahead, regulated to time-table of minutes and distances, but we can only hear the crash of the bursting shells. The first wave pounces upon a German post, and disposes of or takes prisoners, those occupants who had not fled. Enemy machine-guns spit venom into the fog, but it is random firing, and causes few casualties. Enemy high explosives come screaming over, but most are too short or too long. Anyway, the bursting zone is limited, and our waves have many gaps. When a battalion of 250 Australians has to attack on a front of 1000 yards, forming four separate lines in depth along this front of 1000 yards, can there be other than gaps which all the eloquent pleading for reinforcements has not yet availed to fill?
Directing the Tanks.
The light strengthens. Submissive Huns stream back towards our lines, and the prisoners of war cages. Those attackers who kept direction best find themselves a mere handful, attacking German trench systems. Half a dozen men and an officer captured 300 yards of Hun trench, killing some with bomb and bayonet, taking others prisoner. The time for other assaulting troops to move up has arrived. Some get lost a few yards from the jumping-off line. Officers on the spot, of whatever battalion, collect the strays and go forward. One of these parties fell in with a tank totally at sea. An officer with compass and map gives the tank commander his bearings, swings him towards the objective, and forward go tank and an ever-increasing entourage of troops of four battalions. They mop up machine-gun nests, taking more prisoners that the handful of pioneers, who first penetrated the gloom, simply could not deal with. They round up other prisoners by the score, give our own people directions, and clear the intervening country of enemy troops.
With the strengthening light, the fog begins to dissipate. Thank heaven, it had shielded us in the critical hour of dawn, when German machine-gunners might have had a rich harvest, but now we are well forward, having penetrated his defensive zone, and we want light. It comes. The mist rolls away, and we find ourselves at our objective. Dead Huns lying in trenches and dug-outs, live Huns being escorted back, attest the issue of the battle. Stragglers get their bearings, and join their comrades to garrison the captured line. We sit down to rest a moment, examining our souvenirs and trophies, then get to work to make the place habitable.
A Vast Cavalcade.
But our part was but the "kick-off" of a mighty game. A vast migration follows us, passing through our line to distant objectives. As far as the eye can see, are waves of men going across country, north and south of us, while limbered guns, armored cars, horsed supply waggons and supply tanks, water and forage carts, now pour unceasingly along the eastward roads. It would take the pen of a De Quincey, inspired with one of his opium dreams, adequately to describe that