belonged to them. Rather than put any more on their Camels, or carry a pound themselves, they made this poor creature carry it for them. And they were going to Bethlehem, anything between miles. And how far she had come before we saw her, I do not know.
At our first halt, we could see away back in the hills, a house, which through the glasses, resolved itself into a big two storied building with a large courtyard round it. Some natives passing when I asked, told me it was Bet Jemaal, then said Latine, and made the sign of the Cross to show priests were there. I cannot place at all in the guide book I have. It is I find a school and farm belonging to a Roman Catholic Brotherhood dating since 1868. Afterwards we passed the straggling little village of Kinoor, and then Bet Atab .
This village which is built on a rock which contains a cave sinking to a depth of 250 feet beneath the town. It is supposed to be the Cave where Samson fled to shelter from the Phillistines and here, to make peace with the Phillistines some 3000 of the Israelites took Samson, bound him and handed him over to them. But Samson broke his bonds at the sight of his enemies, and with the jawbone of an ass slew 1000 of them. From just near here we caught, away on our left, our first glimpse of the spires and steeples of Jerusalem. At last, in a series of short sharp turns the road reaches the top and then begins a rapid winding ascent. Half way down we could see the village of El Khudr lying beneath our feet in a fertile valley. The principal building being a very large Greek Monastery.
Just beyond the village we camped and watered our horses that night at one of the Pools of Solomon. Nearby are the ruins of an ancient fortress. We saw only the smaller of these enormous reservoirs, which stretch in a chain along the Valley of Etam, the favourite retreat of King Solomon. These pools, which are some 200 feet above the Holy City, supply it with water today as they have done for centuries.
Early next morning, the 19th, I climbed the low rocky hill, that lay between our Camp and Bethlehem, and from the top, I saw for the