note, with these words written on it. "I hope these socks reach some brave hero in France, and not a cold footed shirker in Egypt". The woman who sent these socks appended her full name and address. The lad who received them went through recently to hosp. badly wounded. Writing as a non-combatant, which gives me the privilege, I honestly believe, in fact, I know, that the A.L.H. here are fighting as bravely and determinedly, aye, and dying just as splendidly as Australian troops in any part of the world. There is not so much continuous fighting, and consequently not the death-roll that there is in France, but the character of the country is altogether different. 
Here the struggle is for miles where in France they strive for yards. But what those wearying miles through the sun-scorched sands of Egypt, and the arid, bleak hilly wastes of lower Palestine have meant in weariness, sleeplessness, hunger and thirst, and general discomfort, is beyond the power of anyone to realize unless they have been through it.
Just another word while I am "grousing". Orders were read out this morning, and leave to Cairo and Port Said is again on the tapes. Our enthusiasm was somewhat dampened, however, when it was announced that the National Hotel in Cairo was "within bounds to Officers, but" ? "out of bounds to N.C.O's and men, owing to the" "shortage of accommodation for Officers". Now already the Officers monopolize the best places, Shepheards, the Continental, etc. No soldier can cross the threshold of these places. They are sacred to stars, crowns, crossed swords, etc., and other symbols of high rank (though not always high mental capacity), and dire penalties await those of the common herd, who, greatly daring, presume to intrude in these gilded preserves. 
But the National Hotel has always been the Soldiers Hotel, where first class board and lodging could be had, and now the nickel plated snobocracy have deprived us of even that place. Of course, there is the Anzac Hostel but that