hedges and in other shady places small lilies are displaying blossoms of a single petal, curved over at the top, of the most delicate green, with brown stripes, and a single stamen. It is a miniature Aaron Lily, but scentless. Another very beautiful variety, whose flower is barely a couple of inches from the ground is making its appearance. We have been here for just on a month now, and rumours of an early move are consistent.
On February 16th we left the all the transport and a few bearers left this Camp on the stunt of which we had heard so much during the last few days. One rumour had it we're going to Bethlehem, another to Jerusalem and Jericho, but none but those in charge really knew where our objective was. At about 10 A.M. on a day of beautiful sunshine, we moved off, the Divisional Band on the seated on their "donks" (donkeys) playing us away from the Camp.
Leaving Rishon le Sion on our right, we passed through the village of Deiran, and out onto the fertile undulating country that lies beyond. A journey of several miles brought our slowly moving line of transport, wriggling like a huge snake across the gentle sweep of hill and hollow, opposite to the Arabic Village of Madineh . This place which is mentioned in the book of Joshua as one of the cities of Judah, is supposed at one time to have been a place of importance, judging by the considerable ruins found here.
Here we were greeted by lines of Arabs and Bedouins, with bags of oranges, and their cry "Oringies, Kuwayis, Sitta, wahed piastre". (Oranges, good, Rice one piastre.) On both sides of the road the fields were gorgeous with flowers. Jewish Colony near Akir (Ekion). Dinner time, when a halt was made, and the horses fed, we boiled the good old billy and had some dinner. Billy tea is the best tea in the world, and travelling on such a glorious day as this was, was enough to give anyone the appetite of a horse, even though there was only bully beef and biscuit to satisfy it.
Someone has wisely said, "Hunger is a great sauce", and I have can truly