to your unit?" and this is the front line. The Giant, Red Tape, dies hard. How could poor Turkey, or Turkey and Germany together, be expected to stand up against a spirit like that! It is irresistible.
We went this afternoon and climbed the steep terraced sides of the hill on our right. From this hill, Et Tell should be almost due east, but I could not be sure of it. My guide book tells me only that it is a hill covered with stones, and every hill, and they are legion, is a wilderness of stones in this locality. This hill is believed to be the site of the Ancient City of Hai, the inhabitants of which Joshua put to death by the sword, to the number of some 13,000 or so, burnt the city and "made it a heap for ever". North East rise the heights of Baal Hazor, where Absalom, David's beautiful but erring son, ran what in Australia we would call a sheep station, and when at the close of a shearing he had a great banquet to which he invited all his brothers and, at a given signal, when his brother Amnon's "heart was merry with wine" Absalom's hired assassins fell upon him and killed him. To-day British shells are pounding it for all they are worth, and by the look of the shell-bursts, Jacko must be having quite a respectable afternoon's enjoyment. 
And, while the big shells prepare the way, one can see the soldiers of one of the youngest nations in the world, on its sides nearest Jerusalem dismounted and waiting to advance. 
Beitin or Bethel is rich in interest. Here Abraham pitched his "evening tent" while journeying into the land of Canaan. The site, or as near to it as possible, is marked by some ruins of an ancient Church. Here, too, he and Lot, finding the growth of their flocks such that the land was unable to sustain, both, decided to separate, Lot casting envious eyes onto the well watered valley of Jordan and making it his choice, which cupidity later led him into much trouble at Sodom and Gomorrah by the Dead Sea.
Here too Jacob the supplanter, after working on his brother Esau's hunger and stealing his birthright, rested while fleeing from Esau and it was in this place he saw his vision and named it Bethel. The two Deborahs, the one who nursed Rebecca, Jacob's mother, and Deborah the prophetess, an early day Joan of Arc, were familiar with this place. The first is buried here. It has been the scene of many Israelitish conflicts. Each year the prophet Samuel came here in exercise of his functions as Judge over Israel and here Jereboam, after the division of the tribes of Israel, fearing that if the people went up to Jerusalem they would become estranged from his rule, raised a golden calf for them to worship. The feet of Elijah, Elias and many another Biblical hero also wandered over these hills in their lifetime and here Elijah's budding prophets underwent their training, and now, in our time, we tread the same soil, and gaze on the hills and valleys they saw, and the same hills re-echo to the sound of our great guns, as in their