a move on, and we had to wait for them, and then after travelling about a mile, we had to wait another received orders to wait and allow the Brigade Transport to pass, which took another hour. Twelve o'clock was blown on the Rishon le Sion wine cellars whistle before we finally got a move on.
Such is the glorious uncertainty of Military movements. At twenty past two by the clock on the great on the tower of the Great Hospice of St. Josheph of Arimathea in Ramleh, where during the siege of Jaffa, Napoleon and his staff lodged in 1799, and the Church was changed into a Hospital, now it has become a H.Q. for us and also a hospital for our boys, we were passing the front entrance of that place, with the celebrated Tower of the forty Martyrs on our right, behind us the stately ruins of Cour de Leon's Church, on our left the Great Church, dedicated I think to St George and all around us the immense olive gardens surrounding Ramleh. Some of these, judging by appearances, are extremely ancient.
The difference in Ramleh today and when we first came through about four months ago is wonderful. New main roads of excellent character have been constructed. Wide roads have been laid for light Motor Traffic, the old roads have been repaired, and their sides re-ditched, and the whole place hums and throbs with activity. Immense Motor Transport waggons pass one in string files numbering scores, Camels loaded with all kinds of war materials, amble by in strings groaning, bubbling strings of a hundred and more. Signs boards are everywhere. The place seems to have become a great centre of Military Operations. The work entailed has been enormous. In addition to the transformation effected by the hand of man, the new rains have transformed changed the country surrounding the town into veritable garden of green fields and blossoming fruit trees.
6th March. I feel nearly too tired to do any writing at all to-night, and only the knowledge that I will get very much behind unless I keep up day by day, spurs me up to it. We were on the way by about 8 AM. this morning, and have only just settled down for the night. It is now about 8 P.M. All day we have travelled along the main road from Jaffa to Jerusalem, passing out of Ramleh by the main road along the side of the Mussulman Cemetry. Many villages