it is quite "propah ? y?know for the lowah-ordahs" to be deprived of any little comfort they may possess. Billjim must get his satisfaction and comfort from the indisputable fact that the war will be considerably shortened by these energetic and common-sense methods.
20th The gigantic Military Head 
20th Infinite wisdom, as embodied in the mighty lofty intellects of the Military Authorities is still engaged in one of the mightiest conflicts that has ever disturbed the peace and serenity of D.H.Q. in this theatre of the great war. This is no less than a desperate, prolonged, and enervating struggle with the burning question of short wearing by men. The endurance, courage and resource displayed by the Authorities has been commendable in the extreme. There are whispers of several decorations as a result. Seeing the tremendously beneficial and far reaching effects upon our future as a nation, both at home and abroad as regards our Home and Foreign policies that the settlement of this vital issue in the favour of the authorities will have, it would be an unpardonable offence to posterity if the history of it might be interesting to have the battle from the beginning was not passed on to them, as far as by personal observation and the discreet questioning of infuriated and profane Billjims, and the listening on parade to the liquid accents of several Orderly Sergeants in the reading of various brilliant efforts in the shape of G.R.O.'s can enable us to do. 
In the first place a midnight meeting of the S.S.S.S. (Secret Society for the Stiffening of Soldiers) was held at 10.40. The C. in C. occupied the Chair and none under the rank of Major were admitted. The meeting opened with the singing of the Hymn of Hate (D.H.Q. issued version). As a result of their deliberations, and a commencement of hostilities, the enemy issued a proclamation, the exact date of which we are not sure (the endlessness of the attack being somewhat confusing) to the effect that all men on leaving camp, must be correctly dressed in riding breeches and leggings, no shorts to be worn. This being the front line where correct dress is an absolute essential to the vigorous prosecution of the war and the comfort of the men only a minor consideration, this order should have evoked no surprise or descent.
Judge of the feelings of the hostile forces then when our side replied with withering salvos of profane sarcasm in which the Hughsonian phrase "winning the war" was much in evidence. The enemy, however, being totally devoid of humour, this did not have much effect. Still, we complied with the order, most of us, only wearing our shorts to water. which Watering horse being a fatigue we considered we were entitled to wear a fatigue dress while engaged in the execution of this duty. But the enemy however whose Secret Service is very complete, discovered what we were doing and considerably deconcerted us next morning by an Order prohibiting any man from even riding to water in the banned garments.
By a desperate effort however, on the same day, to prove how consistent they were, they, through Ordnance, issued our Unit with a number of shorts. In spite of the annihilating effect of the sudden onslaught our forces were rallied, and we brought the enemy's plans to nought by while obeying the order, by walking to water and leading our horses, thus clinging to our beloved attire. Intense confusion was observed at enemy H.Q.'s. A.D.C.'s and Orderlies rushed about in wild disorder. Telephones buzzed incessantly, and the C. in C. sat with troubled brow and lips grimly set, while an attendant batman obsequiously applied a towel wrung from iced water, to his lofty brow every quarter of an hour while G.R.O's literally flew from the typists hands. As a