night in their attack here, experiencing some 400 casualties.
It has been raining a little this morning and is very close and oppressive now. The change in the appearance of the plain on this side of the Jordan is very marked. Last time we were here it was a field of green grass and wild oats and barley. Now it is yellow like a field of ripened grain and quite dry. The hot winds and sun have dried it up. In a week or two there will be nothing but a plain of choking dust.
Night of the 1st: Reports have come in to-day that are not too cheery. The Brigade has been pretty well surrounded, the Ambulance has been captured, and 8 guns. That was the first report, later reports said that 15 drivers and a Major had been captured out of the Ambulance. Both N.Z.'s and Australians went through to their relief at the double this afternoon, and the latest report says they are now holding the Turks.
May 3rd We are still in the same Camp. We will move, I understand at the bidding of a rather capricious Fate which, just now, the combined stubbornness of Turk and German is swaying. They are hanging onto the ridges in front with unusual tenacity. As far as the ? is concerned, if reports are true the reinforcements arrived in time to save the Unit, and the guns and limbers are now in No Man's land. Was there ever a worse weariness than the weariness of doing nothing. Hours are days, and days are weeks, that drag themselves slowly ? oh so slowly, by. And they are bad days too. The ground around is churned by the endless heavy traffic into fine white dust, to a solid depth of seven or eight inches, and traffic is always going by, and the dust obscures everything, and hangs in a white haze round the hills. 
At night the wind rises, and the evening meal becomes a fine art, the art lying in preparing and eating it before a solid coating of dust has settled on it. Getting it to one's mouth before and at the same time preventing a dozen or more too adventurous flies going along with it, requires no small amount of judgement either. And the days are hot, very hot, and the giant whirlwinds many and varied. Yesterday we had three Taubes over, morning and evening, without bombs this time, but swooping daringly low, and belting in with their machine guns. It is marvellous how little damage is done, though