come into conflict with the Children of Israel because they refused to help them right a wrong that had been done to an Israelite by the man of Gibeah. Disaster overtook the Benjamites, and in confusion and disorder they fled to the Rock Rimmon, while the men of Israel, pursuing them, slew them in thousands. Only 600 Benjamites reached the Rock alive, and for four months they held out till peace was made. This is the Ramoun of today. 
Away to the East through a dip in the hills, one could see the waters of the Dead Sea, and the desolate, forbidding heights that rise round it on the other side of the Jordan, and further still, behind these and on the left the majestic heights of the mountains of Amitar. Behind us On our right, as we faced the Dead Sea lay Jerusalem, the Dome of the Mosque of Omar, and that of the Holy Sepulchre being clearly visible. We had had a long walk and stiff And in between Beitin and the Rock Rimmon, a hill that is, I feel sure, from its extraordinaryly stony character, the traditional site of the City of Hai. So though we had had a long walk and a stiff climb, I felt amply repaid for the trouble taken. 
The Turks have retired for 15 or eighteen miles from the positions they occupied here, so I suppose we shall move soon.
March 12th When reveille sounded this morning, the clouds were very low, flying along before the furious wind like great grey ghostly rugged phantoms, blotting out sight of everything at a hundred yards distance. It is bitterly cold. How the native population exist, clad in their miserable rags, I do not know. They must be as hard as nails, or else they suffer terribly in the region's winter here. Everywhere one goes now, in any direction almost, the native population are making roads for the Army. Little girls and boys, squatting down on the roadside, breaking stones, the older men and women, including those of a grey wrinkled old age, carting the broken stones in baskets on their heads, and tipping them onto the roadway, while others again are engaged rolling or carrying the big boulders from the mountain side to be broken up.
There must be thousands of them, all jabbering at a tremendous pace, or droning out their weird songs as they work, but they do very little. The inhabitants in this part are of a most wretched type. Their villages are full of filth, and I fail to see how they can be otherwise than hotbeds of disease. Their clothing is miserable in the extreme. In fact