the City is expected to fall tonight. Also, that official information had come through that in France an advance had been made of 12 miles along a 30 mile front. So the old Empire is not done yet, as so many of the pessimistic crowd (and they number quite a few) would have us believe. It is most curious to hear men, bred and born and sheltered by the under the British Flag, and reaping of its benefits, both at home and what is still more curious, fighting for her abroad, who are always ready to decry what she has done, and what she is doing, and declare that she has ?lost her punch? and must soon have peace, but not with victory.
I am glad and proud to think that never even in her darkest and most unpromising hours during this war, has my confidence in her and my belief in ultimate victory been shaken. There may be many dark hours ahead yet many precious lives that she will sorely need for her development in the future may have to pay the supreme sacrifice before the day of victory comes. Storms within as well as without may buffet and bruise her, and threaten to submerge her entirely, but the darkest hour is significant of the dawn, from the blood of those who have died will then spring the fruits of Peace, and she will ride the storms, and find her way into the still, calm waters at last, into that Harbour whose name is victory.
Henry Lawson's beautiful stirring lines come into my mind in this connection as I write,
"She's England yet, the nations never knew her,
Or, if they did, were ready to forget.
She made new worlds that paid no homage to her
Because she called for none as for a debt.
The Bullying curs who deemed all nations craven
And that her star of Destiny had set,
Were sure that she would seek a coward's haven, 
They tempted her, and found her England Yet."
"We learn our England, and we soon forget
To learn again that she is England yet."
March 13 We took Sydney Bulletin 15-10-17.
We took our departure from Beitin amid a deluge of rain this morning. To the description given of Mesopotamia, culled from Syd. Bulletin, might be added regarding Palestine, "An w?en it rains, it rains