Jericho, amid its trees, stretches away on our left overhung by the rugged sides of the Mount of Temptation. Beth-Hogla lies right in front, palms and cypress showing among the houses. On first entering the valley, there is an abundance of green grass, which the horses crop eagerly. As we proceed however towards the Dead Sea, this becomes scarcer, until the only growth is a bush not unlike the Australian Salt bush.
We get the order to halt, when the Greek Convent of Calamoun is about a mile away in between us and the Dead Sea with Beth Hogla about the same distance. Once very luxuriant plantations here, now little. This convent dates from time immemorial, being restored in the eleventh century. It is being used for various purposes at present by the Military.
The Turks seem to be using a great number of machine guns to defend their positions across the Jordan. A batch of prisoners went by this morning with one of these guns, and later another batch of seven men and an Officer, with no less than three with them. The Infantry had a bad time after crossing the pontoon bridge, having to advance across some open country in the face of an intense fire. The New Zealanders too have been doing good work. One of our fellows was telling us how two N.Z's killed 17 Turks on the road and captured 3 on their own. We moved that night about 7.30 down through Beth Hogla, following the winding road that descends right to the banks of the Jordan. On the flat ground piles of drift wood are heaped among the bushes, and the low hills of clayey hills have a most curious formation. They have a projecting cap surmounting them, as though the flood waters had nearly submerged them entirely, washing the lower soil away in its progress but it seems incredible that the waters could reach such a height, though their appearance suggests it strongly.
Down on the banks of the Jordan the bushes are very dense. Trees of some kind are numerous. What they are I could not say, owing to the dim light. On ahead we could hear the transport making a terrific noise passing over the pontoon bridge. Each waggon had to wait of course until the one