ever, while the light lasted, through all their swift changes suffused with the crimson fires of the day, dying in the midst of chaos and disorder. Now that the day has gone, and darkness has set in, the night is full of a fierce unrest, tumultuous wild spirits ride in the gale, wrestling with the gnarled branches of the ancient venerable olive trees, tearing their leaves off in handfuls, and casting them spitefully among the stones grappling in a wild unruly anger with the stone ancient rock walls that withstand them, and shrieking their way through the hills to that bare and desolate region where surely on such a night as this, the Spirits of all the Great Army of lost Souls might congregate and hold riotous carnival together, the region of the Dead Sea.
Devils that stir men to deeds of oppression and violence, fiends that sow in men's hearts, the lust of pride and power that leads to war and bloodshed, sweep fiercely and exultingly by on the wings of the gale to the trysting place holding holding high carnival over the bones of the piled up dead, and counting those who shall fall on red fields to-morrow and howling through the barren hills, in cruel derision over those who are out wounded to-night, exposed to their fury and power. A wild, wild night, typical of the War Spirit that holds the world in its grip, wringing it to an agony of blood and tears that knows no staying. Ride on in your chariots of wind and storm and tumult ye evil spirits and rejoice for this is your hour, and the storm of darkness. And yet mayhap the world that tomorrow's sun will rise on better for thy passing, a world cleansed and purified by the very fury of thy passing. And so, we remember no good and perfect thing can come to us without sorrow, and tears, and pain.
The Gift of the Prince of Peace made three hills echo to the lamentations of Rachael, mourning for her children and refusing to be comforted, because of the Innocents who were slain. Yet the pitiful tragedy of infant massacre and the woe of sorrowing motherhood ushered in a new era of peace and good will to man. And so the anguished Rachaels of this our day, the sorrowing motherhood of the world, walking their mournful way with dim eyes, and bowed hearts and heads, shall surely also see this dark night wild night of fierce unbridled passion pass, and in the clean, sweet dawn of sanity and restraint which must soon come, a new and better world shall appear, purified and ennobled by the blood of their martyr boys.