result of an all night sitting during which three Majors fainted, and one Lt. Col. and two Col.'s were hastily evacuated to the Clearing Station, suffering from severe mental strain, the following order was issued on the 18th. "The order prohibiting the wearing of shorts when riding out of Camp is constantly being disregarded by the N.C.O.'s and men. To ensure the observance of this order therefore, all shorts issued to N.C.O.'s and men, and now in their possession, must be handed into the Q.M.'s Store by 4.30 today."
In spite of the undoubted brilliancy of this strategical movement, designed to outflank us and compel an instant surrender, it fell absolutely flat much to the disgust and chagrin of the hostile forces. This was due to the fact that we had no issued shorts (those mentioned above not being distributed yet) and the ones we wore being bought privately.
The consternation produced in enemy High Commands by the defeat of the previous order was a tame thing compared to the confused produced brought about by this latest discomfiture. With impressive celerity, however, for such a lethargic body they met the situation by a counter-order to the effect that the C. in C. himself would be round the various units on the 19th and if any man was seen to be wearing the accursed garments in question, the O.C. of such Unit would be court martialled. This was would have been exceedingly satisfactory to us, if it had not been that one very important clause was omitted viz., that on no account would the O.C. be allowed to pass the Court Martial on.
Today the 20th the threat of yesterday was followed up by an order that "no man was to wear shorts in Camp or out, at any time" and there the matter stands, and no man knows just how it will end.
By all the laws of precedent and general Military procedure, it should end in us all being issued with shorts very soon, with a command to wear them sleeping and waking, under or be shot at dawn. Meanwhile with the smoke of battle still obscuring the landscape and the thunders of the recent conflict yet reverberating among the hills of the Jordan, I want to state an obscure and unimportant fact. After wearing my first issue of Australian boots for just over two years, I am compelled, with others, to wear in place of new ones, second hand Tommy boots fearfully and wonderfully patched and half soled, which cripple the feet, wear out a pair of socks every second day and possess "an affluvium" all their own in comparison to which all the various and combined odours of the East are violets and lavender. 
True it is only about three months since I put in for my new ones, and vital questions have been occupying the Military intellect of late, so I must not be impatient. This all important short question is very nearly settled to the discomfiture of the troops and the Ration of Red Tape, so why worry about boots? They are things of minor importance.