A little further on, and the Valley was in sight. It was the first time we were ever glad to see it, but then, we are going back for good now, and the Valley marks a slip in the road. We camped in the Valley near the Wadi Nimrin that night, reaching there at about 3 o'clock in the afternoon, a distance of 25 miles from Es Salt.
Next morning, the 3rd, we moved at about 8 P.M. across the Valley for the foothills and the Jerusalem road. One would hardly know the Valley. All the tents are gone, the endless traffic is a thing of the past, there has been a shower or two of rain, and the dust was practically nil. The Jordan was very low as we passed.
Coming up on to the flat country out of the river depression, the first thing we saw was the little enclosure where some of our brave boys lie sleeping. One cannot help a feeling of sadness when one reflects that they are lying here, while the comrades they fought with are marching back in the joy of victory with peace, which these helped to win, but whom the fortunes of war did not permit share in life. And yet they may know, and share in our triumph, who can tell. Already the farmers are busy in the Valley, irrigating, ploughing, etc.
We climbed out by the old Roman Road, and from the top of the hill near the 22nd K. from Jerusalem I turned and had my last look at the Jordan Valley. Very little dust was there to-day, but it was full of shadows and the grim hills of Moab were bathed in purple haze on the further side. We reached Talaat Ed Dumm, and turned in to our old camp at about 3 P.M. We are staying here to-day.
On the 5th we left Talaat Ed Dumm and journeyed to Jerusalem, making our Camp about 3 miles out of the city on the Bethlehem Road. Leave was granted, but I did not go. I am tired of being shepherded round by an Officer as though I were one of a pack of school boys. Afterwards I regretted it a little, as the Mosque of Omar was open for inspection, and it was closed on my first visit.
Next morning early, the 6th, we rode through the new city for the last time on our way to Latroun. Coming down the hill to the Pool of Gihon a couple