But for their petty meannesses and disdainful snobbishnesses they are to blame, these are personal traits of character all their own, which their position gives them the opportunity of exercising, and for these they are disliked and held in contempt.
On the 4th our limber was recovered from the bottom of the Jordan. It took a whole day's work for about a dozen men to get out, but out it came, with all the load intact. I don't suppose there are many limbers and limber loads that in the British Army that have had that experience. I have recovered all my own things, and after drying most of them proved little the worse for their two days immersion. The photos, with one or two exceptions were alright. One or two had the subjects written in indelible ink across the back of them, and this was transferred to other photos but that was all.
There is a rumour afloat that we are to move in a few days, but nothing definite.
11th April Today, I fancy I have a much clever idea of the reason of the retirement of our troops across the Jordan. A very strong position has been built on the Eastern side of the river, with Barbed wire entanglements and systems of trenches; heavily machine-gunned. As was expected, Johnny, becoming confident, has made an attack. He launched it about dawn this morning. It was the signal for a tornado of shell fire from several batteries on this side of the river. Since dawn the deadly missives have been shrieking overhead, on positions long since marked out. Jacko's losses have, I believe been tremendous. Big guns and little guns have been raking his lines with deadly effect almost without cessation. Wounded men coming in state that Turkish dead are lying in heaps.
Now an artillery barrage is bursting behind his attacking force, and he can not go back, and the machine guns are raking him from the front. While too much reliance cannot be placed on reports coming in from single individuals, as their view and grip of the situation is necessarily limited, there can be no doubt his casualties have been tremendous. His attacking force is somewhere in the region of 3000 and if any of them see Turkey again they will be fortunate. It was a cleverly arranged trap and Johnny has fallen to the bait.