terrace one door on each side opens into a similar gallery, but which have had staircases, now blocked with rubbish, leading apparently to the open air on top of the hill. The third terrace has right in the middle of the half circle an imposing seat of honour with niches which were at one time evidently occupied by statuary. There is a small ante-room here too. Evidently here the Emperor himself sat to view the sports.
The whole place is vast, the labour involved must have been enormous, and one can only gaze in wonder and admiration. On the left, as one stands facing the huge structure, are some splendidly preserved fragments of one of the outer courts. The carving over the doorways here is magnificent. Leaves, fruit and flowers, with other complicated designs, stand out as clearly to-day as when the hands of the dead master-craftsmen, with infinite skill and patience, first chiselled them from the stone. The stone has been, some red, and some white, and evidently polished to an intense degree, and what the finished construction must have looked like with the sun striking on its polished grandeur and magnificence, can only be partly imagined. 
We sat on one of the rows of great stones which formed the seats, and tried to picture the scenes that had been enacted here. The stirring gladiator combats, the vast concourse of nobles and delicate ladies, the vanquished men prostrate after a sanguinary encounter, the plaudits of the multitude, and then perhaps the tense moments of waiting for the signal which gave the beaten man his life or took it from him.
Unreal and shadowy, because of our own scanty knowledge of such things, the pageant moves before us and the vast assemblage rises, and the ancient galleries resound to the tramp of many feet as the throngs seek their palatial homes. Sitting here too, one looks on over the town of Amman, dirty, mean, squalid as any other Eastern town. Remarkable contrasts, links between the old and the new, the splendid and the mean, present themselves to the eye. From the centre of a cluster of mud houses with flat roofs, rises a single column of granite four or five feet in diameter and towering above its squalid surroundings to a height of thirty feet.
Away on the left amid similar surroundings part of the wall and tower of some great fortress rise. An old bridge of enormous stones spans the stream. Granite and marble columns are everywhere. Over all is the mark of Arab occupation. The huge galleries of the Coliseum, and the ante-rooms all bear the unmistakable hallmarks of Turkish occupation. They have stabled their horses in the galleries and lived in the ante-room, and dirt and evil smells are everywhere. Away on the hill in front are more masses of ruins where the ancient Capitol stood.
 After a meal