day they re-echoed to the war cries of their Champion of Israel, marching up against the cities that oppressed them. 
Later, Jacko is evidently retreating. Eight of our planes have just gone over his lines, without doubt to bomb. I can almost find it in my heart to pity "Johnny"
We watered this evening at Beitin. I find that our Camp is about a mile and a half or two miles from the township. There is a spring of beautiful clear water, on the South, or perhaps south west side of the village and this supplies all the water for the Brigade. It is practically inexhaustible. Besides the horses of the Brigade, others water here, all twice a day, and also all the water for the troops? use is drawn from it, yet it always remains at the same level.
The troughs (canvas portable) are down in the ruins of an old and very large basin, about 120 yds. in length by 75 in width. The old walls, the east end of which is built of very large stones is still standing most of the way round to a height varying from four to ten feet. On the south side there is the remains of a small circular reservoir, and I noticed one or two basins cut out of the solid rock lying around, and also the base of a very large marble pillar. The larger basin and its attendant constructions have evidently been beautiful in their day, but very little is left. We could only see the newer portion of the township from the watering area but even this is now in ruins. The basin bears the name of Bahr Beitin, or Sea of Beitin. 
On a hill just near are the remains of a very old construction, only one end wall and a very small side portion remaining. This is supposed to mark the site of the Altar of Abraham and Jacob which he built by Divine Command on his return journey to Bethel (Beitin). The hill is called Bordj Beitin. After comparative silence, once more the big guns are speaking. The rumour that came through this morning is only partially true. The Turks have retired from Baal Hazor, but only to a very strong position in rear of it.
March 10th Today is perfect. After an exceedingly heavy dew, the sun rose in a cloudless sky, though later it has become a little hazy. I took a walk up to another hill today about a mile distant in search of El-Birih , and found it, discovering at the same time that it was within sight of our Camp all the time. I had taken it to be the outskirts of Ram Allah. This is a Mohammaden village, very poor in appearance. Even it has its history however. It is