"as we passed, beneath our feet, we felt the timbers crack". About 12 or 15 feet of the pontoon broke away. Then the force of the current carried the poor struggling team underneath the bridge.
It was most pitiful to see the desperate struggle for life they made. The one I was riding, a big horse just on 17 hands high, must, I think, have broken his leg, for poor old "Baby" as he was called was only seen once. My other leader "Ludd" made the gamest struggle I have ever seen. He was too far down the stream to be able to reach him to cut his harness, and twice I thought he was giving up the struggle. I must confess I felt a big lump rise in my throat as I watched him. He stretched his head out along the water and lay still, sinking gradually. Then a mule rose alongside of him, and got clear of its harness, and perhaps encouraged a little, poor Ludd made another desperate effort, and struck clear of his harness. In a few moments willing hands had hold of him at the bank, and thoroughly exhausted he was hauled ashore. The mules too made an exceedingly game fight. Out of the team of six, one mule and one horse was lost.
I am as free from possessions now as it is possible to be. Clothes, blankets, rations, all lie at the bottom of the Jordan. Fortunately, a short time ago, I got an old gas mask haversack, and decided to carry my diary in it and always on me, so I have saved that, but all my photos nearly two years collection are gone, together with curios. However, we were all extremely thankful to escape with our lives. Fortunately, the mules decided to go over on the off side, which gave us a chance. If they had come over on the near, we would undoubtedly have been into the river, and under the struggling horses at that.
This morning twelve enemy planes came over again, and bombed us, but did no damage. But they are trying to the nerves, even though they do miss with their bombs, because one never knows when they will score a hit, and there is always a sporting change of the score being very much against you.