clearly. The Artillery were pounding this big bluff, sending in H.E's and shrapnel at a great rate. Then suddenly the heavy guns ceased, and one could see the thin, straggling lines of men clambering up the slopes towards the Turkish positions. They looked like ants in the distance.
Presently the firing broke out again, but this time the shells were lobbing on the far side of the hill, catching Johnny as he retreated in haste. We moved up that evening to the next hill to this, and here the transport was blocked. The road had become impassable.
This is the wildest looking district I have ever seen, I think. Though some four miles or more away from the Dead Sea, it partakes to a large extent of its barren desolate appearance. The rugged hills are limestone in character, great fissures renting their sides, where the water from the rainfall of centuries has rushed down to the Wadi below. This mount on which we spent the night must be, I think, the mount called in Arabic Arak Es Schems, or Rock of the Sun. At any rate if not it, it is in its immediate neighbourhood. An winding extremely steep zigzag, with precipitous sides led down to what I take to be the Wadi el Mukelik, where we watered that night, at two great excavations in the sides of the Wadi, similar to the one we watered at the night before but infinitely larger. The water though very discoloured, and smelling a good deal, was slightly better.
That night, as we were boiling the billy, the rain which had been hanging about since the 16th commenced. A great mass of transport had by nightfall accumulated there, but were unable to proceed. Therefore, as the congestion on such an exposed position offered an excellent target for enemy bombs, it was very early on the morning of the 21st that the Camp was on the move again. This time we were going back a little way, to get onto the old Roman road leading to Jericho, which was our objective.
A little way brought us up to some stretcher bearers trudging along with silent burdens, men who