an old Benjamite town, and had many years previously been in Egyptian hands. I wanted to see the remains of the two large reservoirs which are here, and which are reputed to have been of very fine workmanship, but the village itself is of course like all other villages "out of bounds" and Tommy M.Ps. (Mounted Police) are as numerous as the rocks are about here, and are only too anxious in some cases to "limber" an "innocent abroad" so having no pass, I thought discretion the better part of valour, and contented myself with what I could see from the hill top, which was not much.
The remains of the old Khan were visible and the rest was just an ordinary Mussulman village. The Church of the Holy Family is here, receiving its name from the tradition that it was here that Mary and Joseph, on their return from Jerusalem, having gone a day's journey, discovered that the child Jesus was not with them, and returning to the Holy City, found him in the Temple in discussion with the Elders. The Mosque of El Aksar in Jerusalem is supposed to cover the portion of the old Temple in which the discussion took place.
March 11th The temperature undergoes wonderful changes in a short period in these latitudes. Yesterday was warm, and today is bitterly cold, with a fine chilly rain. I went with one of the other boys for a walk of about four or five miles, there and back to one of the further hills on the east of our Camp. We were rewarded with a good view of several historical villages and places. Perched on the top of a very high conical hill in a north-easterly direction we could see the village of Ophrah, called in Arabic El Tayibeh (the Good). This place is the Ephraim of the Bible. When the leaders among the Jews had decided that Jesus should die, his disciple John in his record, says that he walked no more openly among them, but retired to a city near to the desert called Ephraim.
The great desert of Beth Aven lies just on the Jordan side of this place. Almost immediately on our right as we faced Ephraim lay the village of Dai Diwan, and just showing over it the peak of the hill and a portion of the town of Ramoun. The Children of Benjamin had