about themselves and their dwellings is an air of squalor and wretchedness that I have not seen equalled in any other part of Palestine, foul and insanitary and squalid as most of its native villages and inhabitants are.
A batch of prisoners went by this morning, about 30 in all, two Turkish Officers at their head. They were a most nondescript looking crowd. Our poor unfortunate horses are feeling the cold keenly. For five or six days now they have been on insufficient feed, two or three handfuls of grain, barley and peas, and a handful of tibn (coarse chaff) per meal. One feels ashamed to face his poor old nag these times. And the cold still continues. This country reminds one of the Bulletin Cartoon in which a Sailor asks a soldier what Mesopotamia is like, and the soldier replies, "W?en its ?ot its ?ot as ?ell, when its cold, its cold as ?ell, and w?en it blows it blows like ?ell. And this is the ?Promised Land?".
Australia is reckoned to be, I believe, one of the oldest countries in the world, but it could never have existed in the days of the Exodus, or Infinite Wisdom would surely have transported His chosen people there, but I am glad He did not, for they would have ruined and spoilt it utterly. The Lord knows our politics and politicians have more than a fair share of spineless asininity, and, in their ignorance and incompetence they have done enough towards making Australian affairs stink in the nostrils of decent people, but even they, objectionable encumbrances as they are, are preferable to an invasion of the class of "Chosen" that exist here.
I did a little bit of an outflanking movement on the M.P's at El Bireh this afternoon, and went away round the back of the village to get a view, if possible of the reservoirs there, but could not get very close. However, I had a good view of the Mussulman oratory, which surmounts the cistern and also of the old Khan. This has been a very large place, but beyond three or four tremendous irregularly shaped arches, which are on the Jerusalem side, and one or two others now detached, which have at one time been part of the building, very little of it now remains.
So I saw very little after all, but the hill climbing served to get my blood in circulation if nothing else. We were talking to some Royal Horse Artillery men at the Y.M.C.A. tonight, and he said that the Turks have retreated to within 3 miles of Nablous, and that