rides in a cloudless sky tonight.
22nd March On the 20th we moved out of Bethlehem at about 6.30 P.M. The night was a beautiful one, with the moon half at the full. Our progress was exceedingly slow, although travelling on the excellent main road from B. to Jerusalem. As we entered the City, the Valley of Hinnom lay in shadow, the old massive walls of the citadel looking very imposing in the moonlight. The old way so familiar to us now, round by the Damascus, New and Herod's Gate, and down by the Garden of Gethsemane.
The Rock of Stephen's Martyrdom showed up white and ghostly in the silvery light, the gilded domes of the Russian Church of St. Magdalene reflected, but the shadow of the city fell over the Valley of Jehosaphat hiding the outlines of Absalom's tomb in the gloom. Deep shade lay too in the Sacred Garden on our left but over the Great Dome of Omar and the Holy City the moonlight lingered with a transfiguring touch. Our journey that night took us to the foot of the hill, where we arrived at about 3 A.M., on which is situated the Inn of the Good Samaritan, already mentioned. 

Our watering of the horses next morning from here was one of the worst experiences I have had in that line, I think. Just above the Camp we descended into the Wadi and followed its bed right till it junctioned with the Wadi Farar, which later on becomes the Wadi Kelt emptying into the Jordan. The sides of the Wadi are shut in with giant limestone rocks for the most part. Occasionally the precipitous sides fell away to a sharply sloping hill, clad with beautiful grass and flowers. When we reached our watering place, after a four or five mile ride, a beautiful sight met our eyes. As we turned in under the half filled up arch of a giant construction dating from Roman times, and completely bridging the Wadi, in front of us lay a beautiful stream, rushing in limpid coolness down its rocky bed. Perched on the banks of the Wadi was a large house and from underneath it the water flowed to fall in sparkling cascades to form the main stream beneath. The Wadi bed has palms, figs, olives, growing luxuriantly, the banks