<p class="page" id="a6865425">[Page 425]</p>
<p>The shell fire is far and away more disconcerting to man than is the rifle shots, because when near each one bursts with an explosion &amp; then scatters its contained missiles in all directions.   The larger the shell the more noise does it make and the greater its power for doing harm.  The Turks fire mostly six inch shells.  Our people fire any size up to those of the Queen Elizabeth ship which weigh over one ton.  Just think of it, a weapon manufactured by man that can hurl more than 2240 lbs. of metal through the air for ten or fifteen miles.  It is truly wonderful.   The noise with the burst of the six inch shell is described as being dreadful.  A man of experience in the South African war said that more shells were fired during one day at Galipoli than during the whole of the fighting with the Boers.   This may or may not be true.</p>
<p>It is a legend that shells never fall two in the one spot, but this must no longer be given credence, because many strike the same spot, and in rapid succession.  The ships of the navy shelled many villages, but the gunners always avoided the mosques, a very desirable procedure, to make a good impression upon the Mahomedan people.  This is one of the secrets of the success of the British with foreign people, because the religious views of those amongst whom they happen to live or govern is at all times given due respect, so in fighting they pursue the same line of policy, the wisdom of it is proven by the fact that our own men, onlookers at the falling of the shells notice, how much more so are the Turks to make a mental note of it, then in good time results much to be desired will follow.</p>
<p>There was no rain during the four weeks that our men were on the peninsula.  It is very difficult to locate the situation of the big guns being used by the enemy, and he takes every care to keep his weapons from being discovered.  The poppies are in full bloom in the fields, and their brilliant colours give a picturesque touch to the landscape.  The houses of the farmers have red roofs, which looks like the tiles that are used in North Sydney &amp; other places.  One story going the rounds is:  An officer in a certain position desired that his men should leave it as it was a very warm corner, some of the men thought that it was necessary in the interests to hold on to the position and they told the officer so in language more forcible than polite, they did hold on and it was soon found that it would have been very unwise to have left it.  It is the the anecdote and you have it for what it is worth.  Many men say, "The war is terrible, I never anticipated anything like it, yet it is grand."   "It was all right after the first few days because then the food came along in plenty, it was somewhat rough for</p>