 [Page 51] 
  20th Battalion A.I.F.  107/2B Headquarters 14th February 1918 
 The Hon. Secretary 20th Battalion Comforts Fund, 63 Pitt Street Sydney, N.SW. 
 Dear Madam, In answer to your letters of the 7th and 28th November last, re pooling of stores by Comforts Committees, I am very glad to be able to inform you that, although I was very against the pooling of comforts, at any rate, as regards socks this Battalion has had a very amply supply during the present winter from the General comforts pool and, in my opinion, the system has answered very well. At the same time, we find it very useful in the Battalion to have a few extra socks in our possession to meet unforseen emergencies, and I really think that, in view of our experience this year, the pooling has answered very well. 
 In regard to Christmas parcels for the troops we received a very full issue from the general fund, but have not had, as yet, parcels addressed direct to the Battalion. 
 The money you have so kindly sent to London for us is still being expended in purchasing 400 Tommy Cookers per week for the use of the Battalion when in the line and, in addition, we used some of the money to purchase 50,000 cigarettes from London to be sold in the canteen. These were all sold and the money has been transmitted back to London for a further supply. This I find necessary as we were unable to get sufficient cigarettes in France to keep our men supplied. 
 During this year we also purchased out of this fund a portable sewing machine for the Regimental tailors, and a small portable horse clipping machine which makes the work of our transport much easier in the muddy areas during the winter. We have also purchased a certain amount of band gear, and our band has now been thoroughly re-organised and is, in our opinion, one of the best bands in the A.I.F. 
 Thanking you again for the many favours that you have shown us, and for the good work done by your Committee on behalf of the battalion, 
 I am, Yours truly, &ndash; Ralston Lieut. Col. Commanding 20th Battalion A.I.F. 
 [Note &ndash; there is no digital image "a9316052"> ] 
 name="a9316053">  
 [Page 53] The Honorable Mr. Justice Ferguson Supreme Court King Street Sydney N.S.W. Australia 
 C R Lucas 
