 a6692011.html 
 
 
 
  1916  
 7 
 
 
 Nov 29 
 into pier for coal.  "Argyllshire" moved out into the stream again.  Bought souvenir of Cape Town from one of the Cape boys in a boat alongside the ship, to send home. 
 
 
 Nov 30 
 Still in Cape Town, in the stream.  Nice day.  Rose as usual at 6.  Did physical jerks.  Had breakfast.  No parades.  After breakfast, Bill Allan took the Engineers in hand for physical development for about an hour.  Then read "Ginger Mick" to the boys on the deck at Mr. Gray's request.  Much speculation and thousands of latrine wirelesses as to our probable date and time of leaving.  Fed up with being in port and not being allowed on shore.  Hope to sail in the morning on our last long spell of travel.  There is a big storm coming at time of writing this.  Cleaned up my knives and scissors with emery, on account of rust.  Got an orange in a scramble on the deck this morning, which were given out by the Y.M.C.A.  George Ravell made a defaulter through handing a letter to a coal lumper which con-tained information which was contrary to Military Orders.  He was given 10 days C.B. 
 
 
 Dec 1 
 Rose 6 am.  Ship weighed anchor at 6.15 am.  On our way at 6.30 with "Kent" as our escort.  Glad to leave Cape Town, the more at not being allowed ashore there.  "Argyllshire", "Boonah", Marathon" all in the one convoy heading for -------- 
 
 
 Dec 2 
 Nothing unusual to-day.  Sea moderate.  No concert.  Travelling at night as a dark ship.  We are now in comparative danger from submarine actions and are under strictest Naval orders.  Submarine warning this morning.  Gun fired for first time as a test.  It shook hell out of the ship. 
 
 
 Dec 3 
 Sunday.  Church service conducted by Walter Willey.  Nothing much of any consequence to-day.  Sighted the "Argyllshire" on starboard side.  Sighted "Argyllshire", and "Kent" went out to have a peep at her through her guns.  Being satisfied that she was not of enemy origin she was allowed to proceed.  This caused a little concern on board when she was first sighted on the horizon.  Service on poop deck in afternoon.  Had a sing song after.  Madden stricken down with Meningitis.  Condition critical.  I was awarded "most popular artist" prize of 10/- for last concert held.  Feel bucked. 
 
 
 Dec 4 
 Rose 6.  Spent an hour or two practising "Comrades in Arms" Quartette with Edgar Rice, Walter xxxx Willey, Georg Mathison and Tm Peters for concert on night of 6th.  Nothing of importance happened save that I had a BATH ( as usual, in a bucket). 
 
 
 Dec 5 
 Rose early.  Did Jerks etc.  Spent most of morning at practice on songs with quartette.  Had lecture on deck by Lt. Parkinson.  After dinner the usual swabbing out.  Jerks on deck.  More practice and came on deck 
 
 
 
   