a6692020.html



1917
16


Jan 10
Solomon arrived in camp.  Norman Walker and self got straw and filled our paliases ready for the night's rest and comfort.  The thought of sleeping on a straw bed filled us with something akin to excitement.  Had tea.  After tea, shaved in hut and went to Church of England Recreation room where we wrote letters home.  Enclosed pieces of ivy and holly, collected from the roadside on this morning's march.  Returned to hut and turned in for the night.


Jan 11
Reveille 6.30.  Parade 7.  Ground covered with snow and just about as cold as it can be.  Camp seems very miserable altogether.  Had a talk in my sleep with Norman Walker, so he says, about the miniature Cale-donian forest on the other side of the lake and woke up laughing.  Parade 8.  Raining.  Dismissed and order-ed to parade again at 11.  Ordered on parade at 10.  Marched to Parade ground and stood on the snow covered and frozen ground for about two hours waiting for some "brass hat" to come and inspect us.  He came along in time to find us with our feet completely frozen.  In fact, the whole of our bodies were in pretty much the same parlous plight.  After inspection and a march past, we were dismissed and went to hut for dinner.  Glad to get under cover from the ice and mucky ground.  Helped Tim Woods all afternoon with medical histories of our company during the voyage across.  Had Tea.  Also cold bath which chilled me to the marrow.  Spent rest of evening shaving and cleaning up generally.


Jan 12
Rose as usual.  Snow covers ground.  Did not fancy much washing in the cold and dark latrines.  Had to do it.  Paraded at usual time.  Intensely cold.  (Oh, for some heat again!)  Spent all morning on Vaccination and Inoculation parades.  Had dinner.  Parade again in sleet and snow.  Went for inoculation and got it with a vengeance.  After tea, shaved and, not feeling too clever went to bed at 7 and slept till morning.


Jan 13
Arm very stiff and sore this morning.  In fact, feel very sorry for myself all over.  Went on parade and, after inspection, were marched to Orderly Room and dismissed for the day.  After dinner, made bed and slept till tea time.  Had tea, shaved, and retired.


Jan 14
Sunday.  Rose 6.30.  Parade 8.30.  Church till 10.  Broke off.  After dinner, went into Ludgershall.  Saw old Castle ruins built in 1100 some time.  Also church built in 1320 wherein someone was buried in 1326 odd.  Did not see it.  Going another day.  Had delicious cup of cocoa instead.  Returned to camp.  Had tea and wrote letters.  Norman Walker went over to old church in evening.  I did not.  Very cold day, but fine, thank goodness.



 