 a6692021.html 
 
 
 
  1917  
 17 
 
 
 Jan 15 
 Very cold morning.  Route march in morning.  Dental parade in afternoon.  Wrote letters home at night. 
 
 
 Jan 16 
 Frosty morning.  Route march of about 5 miles in morning.  Returned lame and with the most damnable pair of frost-bitten feet that one could imagine.  All I could do to get back to the hut.  Dinner.  Another route march. Returned after going a few hundred yards, damned near dead.  Stayed in at night and wrote letters.  Intensely cold at night. 
 
 
 Jan 17 
 Again cold and bitter.  Route march again.  Oh, these wicked marches.  Returned sore footed again.  After-noon, Engineers put on draft for Brightlingsea.  Got pay.  Spent afternoon in hut wondering what sort of place we are going to.  Consoled in the fact that it cannot be colder or a worse picture of misery than Perham Downs. 
 
 
 Jan 18 
 Cold and dull as usual.  Names taken for draft.  Spent all day at this.  Told we were to leave by train next morning.  Aeroplane came down in the camp last night. 
 
 
 Jan 19 
 Reveille 5.30.  Breakfast at 6.  Fell in 7.  in full gear.  Stood half an hour on parade ground and nearly froze.  Marched off at 7.15.  Inspected by Colonel and others.  Reached Tidworth at 8.30.  Entrained at 9.30, Lt. Gray and Lt. Dumas coming with us in charge.  Dull and cold day and find it very cold travelling.  Reached outskirts of London about 2.  Thought we were going there but turned off in another direction.  Rest of day spent in journey.  Nothing of event happened except we changed trains three times on the journey of 160 miles or so.  Arrived at Brightlingsea at 7.30.  Proceeded to square in middle of town, formed up, checked, rationed and then taken to billets at 48 Silcock Street with a Mrs. Minter.  Missed being put in with Norman Walker as he went away with the first batch, I having been in the second. 
 
 
 Jan 20 
 Spent all morning on Clothing board.  Had gear checked by Q.M. and then returned to billet.  Mrs Minter having taken ill, we found it compulsory to find a new billet.  Got re-billetted at 122 Sydney Street and found two of the old Moore Park "B" Co boys there in the person of Frank Ward and Jim Johnson. 
 
 
 Jan 21 
 Sunday.  Rose 8.  Breakfast.  Church parade 9.30.  Church out at 10.15.  Dismissed.  Spent rest of day sewing and writing letters. 
 
 
 Jan 22 
 First day of training in England.  Lecture on trench construction in the hall till 10.30.  Marched from there out to training paddock and spent day wiring for revet-ments.  Marched back at 4 and went for mail.  None.  After tea, went to pictures.  Got first letters from home dated 22/11/1916. 
 
 
 
   