 a6692008.html 
 
 
 
   
 4 
 
 
 
 1916 
 
   
 
 
 Nov 15 
 Nice day.  Calm sea.  Rose 6 am.  Parade 6.30.  Had Physical jerks till 7.  Breakfast 7.15.  Parade 9.30  Morse till 10.30  Practice for sports.  Sports in afternoon.  Tug of war and boxing bouts.  Engineers won most of the events on the program.  Did not take much interest and took advantage of time off to indulge in washing with Norman walker.  Got all our laundry clean.  Had tea at 5.  Spent evening on deck.  Had instruction in repelling submarine attack.  Sent first Morse message to Norman Walker since learning the code.  Saw large school of porpoises during the day. 
 
 
 Nov 16 
 Rose 6 am.  Nice day again.  Sea like a mirror all day.  No parade, only for washing purposes but having done mine yesterday, spent day in the shade of one of the boats on poop deck, reading "Souls in Pawn".  In afternoon did some sewing below, cleaned leggings and boots ready for leave at the next port, wherever that might be.  While there a submarine warning was sounded and I donned my belt and carried out instructions given during previous drill.  Did some letter writing home.  After tea went on deck and had a yarn, smoke and a sing song.  Slept on poop deck for first time.  Turned in about 9.30. 
 
 
 Nov 17 
 Fine day.  Usual routine.  Submarine warning and drill. 
 
 
 Nov 18 
 Saturday.  Did Morse in morning.  Norman and I detailed for drilling holes for hammocks in girders on hospital deck.  Did the job after much fussing and hard work.  Had to go down into Engine Room to get tools for the work.  Got scared as I passed along rows of huge moving machinery and was rather glad to get on deck again out of the clatter and heat of the engine room.  After tea, ship's crew gave a concert.  Did not go.  Wrote letters instead. 
 
 
 Nov 19 
 Put on Guard duty, 2nd time.  Several men went to sleep on posts.  Don't wonder.  Hell of a row about it. 
 
 
 Nov 20, 21, 22 
 Usual Routine and practice for sports competition. 
 
 
 Nov 23 
 Signalling in morning.  Read a buzzer for first time.  Mock Trial in afternoon.  Corporal Bob Beard the accused and Sapper Winterbotham the accuser.  Proved immensely funny and entertaining.  Sighted land at about 3 pm.  Felt like one of the crew of Columbus' ship.  Arrived at and anchored in Durban, Africa, at about 7 pm.  Looks a very nice place from the deck.  Sat on deck after tea and spent evening with George Mathieson, Walter Willey and other pals singing songs.  Turned in at 9.15 on poop deck. 
 
 
 Nov 24 
 Woke at 5 am  Rose and had wash and got ready for 
 
 
 
   