 a6692009.html 
 
 
 
   
 5 
 
 
 Nov 24 
 route march.  Leave granted from 1.30 till 10.30  Route march from 9.30 till noon.  Quite long enough.  Left ship and lined up on quay with other units, ours in the vanguard.  Had inspection by M.O and then gave salute to O.C. ship as we turned on the road leading from wharf for Durban.  March was to Ocean Beach and Esplanade.  Told we were going for swim, which pleased us greatly, as it was very hot and sultry and we were wet with perspiration.  The swim, however, did not eventuate as the local Military Staff had not advised the proprietor of baths of our intended visit.  He was unable to accommodate us.  With very heavy hearts we marched back to  ship  to be broken up for a half hour spell.  Had an iced ginger beer.  After a rest on the grass lawns, that flank the beach, we were formed up and marched back to the ship again for lunch.  Had it.  Went on deck and watched our gun being hoisted and fixed in position aft.  Fell in again at 1.15 and marched from the pier to the Law Courts in Durban City.  After pickets had fallen out we were dismissed on leave until 10.30  Walter Willey and I hired a Rickshaw from there and went straight to the baths for a swim.  Ride cost us 1/-.  Got to baths at 3.  Had nice surf bath, and a shower which was deliciious.  This was the first time I had felt really clean since I left home.  Left baths and got another rickshaw up to the city.  Joined Tim Woods, Duncan Woolley, George Mathieson, Cameron, Tom Peters and all had afternoon tea on the delightfully cool and spacious verandah of the magnificent Royal Hotel.  Had first decent cup of tea since leaving Perth.  Then went for roam round town.  Sought and bought souvenirs.  Curios out of question as regards price.  In fact it cost almost 5/- to open one's mouth in Durban.  Posted letters and souvenirs home.  Caught a Marriett Road Tram to the Zoo Gardens and enjoyed run on the double decker.  Had tea at the Kiosk at the Gardens and came back to town by another route, gaining lovely views of the city from the heights at the back of the city.  Returned to town and met Herb Larsen.  Waited about an hour for Norman Walker.  Not turning up we went to the Royal for Dinner which we were all eager for.  After a wash and a brush up we all sat down and had a great old feed.  After leaving the Royal, Herb and Woolley and I went round the town while Herb bought Xmas cards to send home.  There being none worth buying I decided to leave mine until I got to Cape Town.  Met Norman at 8.30 in front of G.P.O and arranged to meet him again at 9 after he had a bath  Met him at 9 and got into a cheap restaurant - which was the best that our tired legs and eyes could find - and Norman and Len Bowkett had tea.  I had 2 glasses of milk and felt like a poisoned pup.  Had another rickshaw ride for half an hour.  Bought fruit which we greedily disposed of.  Caught tram to the "Point" and reached the "Marathon" again at 10.40.  Turned in and went to sleep ere long after a most happy day's fun on the whole. 
 
 
 
   