 a6692022.html 
 
 
 
  1917  
 18 
 
 
 Jan 23 
 Parade 8.  Marched out to Trench works and put in day digging trenches.  Pretty hard work for soft men.  Glad of it to make the body feel a little something like warm and alive.  No letters to-day. 
 
 
 Jan 24 
 Parade 8.  Lecture in hall on revetments etc. till 10.  Marched out to Trench works and spent all day on hurdle making for revetments.  Saw demolition attempt on bomb-proof shelter with 10 lbs of Guncotton, with no serious hurt to the shelter.  Had a look over the beautiful old church during dinner hour.  Went to public baths after tea and enjoyed the luxury of a warm bath which cost the large sum of 3d.  Received letters from home to-day.  Spent evening writing etc., 
 
 
 Jan 25 
 Parade 8.  Lecture in hall on cover, shelters, etc.  Marched to trench works and spent day in making hurdles again.  Visited old church again.  Wrote letters at night. 
 
 
 Jan 26 
 Parade 8.  Very cold morning.  Marched to works and did revetting.  Works inspected by General.  Left work 2.45.  Dismissed 3.15.  Spent evening by fire in billet reading and writing. 
 
 
 Jan 27 
 Parade 9.  Route march till 10.  Then inoculated by "Dr Walrus" who prolonged the agony somewhat.  Went to Foresters Hall and got paid 30/-.  Bought some gloves.  Arranged for bike ride for next day.  After dinner, made towards Post Office and was unfortunately seen by S.M. Wilson and detailed by him for duty.  Marched to the Hard and had to load iron rails on a lorry, with others.  And this with a sore arm consequent upon and incidental to inoculation.  From there went to railway and put them on to a truck.  Finished up and posted registered package of first instalment of Diary and some keys home.  Spent evening at home writing out job for Smithy, and lectures.  Got new boots to-day.  No letters. 
 
 
 Jan 28 
 Sunday.  Usual Church parade.  Dry sermon.  Went for walk after round the oyster beds and the Hard.  Went for mail after.  None.  After dinner, went out on bike with Frank Ward.  Left billet 1. Returned 4.  Rode about 17 miles.  Rather tired after it.  Went to within three miles of Clacton-on-Sea.  Had cup of tea at Flag Inn at St Osyth.  Very cold riding.  Wore gloves, muffler, balaclava, mittens, great coat, and even then felt cold.  Spent evening at home copying lectures and writing diary. 
 
 
 Jan 29 
 Parade 8.  Lecture in hall.  Marched to Trench works and carried on with trench work all day.  Nice day.  Snowstorm at mid-day.  Got very cold after.  Left works 3.  No mail as usual.  Stayed in at night and wrote and read papers. 
 
 
 
   