 a6692014.html 
 
 
 
  1916  
 10 
 
 
 Dec 16 
 Saturday.  Our unit supplied the picket on shore for our boat.  I was not in it, thank goodness.  Did nothing all day except lie about in the shade and look for coolness and have the usual immersion in the afternoon. 
 
 
 Dec 17 
 Sunday.  Went to Church service 10.30.  Nice service by Padre Forsyth.  Ship's complement had to coal the vessel.  Engineers had the first go at it.  They made a very good showing.  Mr Gray and Mr Dumas in it up to their necks.  Was not picked, so did not help.  Did not feel too good so was rather glad to be out of the dirty job.  Day is very hot.  Men looked like the niggers when they finished.  Took Duncan Woolley's photo while he was smothered in the black coal dust.  Norman Walker was discharged from hospital.  He is not too well. 
 
 
 Dec 18 
 Monday.  Helped to-day with the coaling operations.  Looked like Uncle Tom's brother when I was through and felt as if I had ventured too far into the hot place.  Got a bath and was then informed that a Concert Party was to be sent off to the H.M.S Kent that evening, in which I was numbered, in the quartette.  Left ship side at 7.30 in Kent's pinnace and had a delightful spin across the harbor.  The party included Dad Rice, Willey, Patis, Wilson, Cameron, Mathieson, 6 stewards, Adjutant and O/C Troops of our ship.  When we got on board the Kent, we saluted the Quarter Deck and were taken by the Padre - an excellent fellow - to the Officers Smoking room and mess and were dealt out and treated in a way that was worthy of the traditions of the British Navy.  After getting smoke and booze into us we went on the Quarter Deck and the concert (program for which I sent home), began.  The Quartette rendered "Dear Little Shamrock" and "Comrades in Arms".  The program was an excellent one and more cigarettes were put at our disposal.  After two or three hours entertainment which were enjoyed by all the tars - judging by the manner in which they cheered us after the conclusion of the concert - we were again treated to drinks and smokes.  We then embarked aboard the pinnace once again and set out for "home" which we reached at 10.40 and thus ended the most pleasant evening's enjoyment we had so far experienced. 
 
 
 Dec 19 
 Tuesday.  Still very hot.  Will it never change.  Duncan Woolley in hospital with slight concussion of the brain as a result of his fall some weeks back during sports.  Concert party from Kent gave us a return visit to-night.  Proved to be very enjoyable and clever turns.  Sat on hatch for 21/2 hours before it began in order to get a good seat and view of the performers and performance.  Got program of items.  They also showed slides through a lantern.  Finale of their bill particularly fine.  Gave big cheers as they ended their bill at 10 pm., 
 
 
 
   