 a6692019.html 
 
 
 
  1917  
 15 
 
 
 Jan 8 
 of our long voyage coming to an end at last.  Had xxxxxx several strong wind s  gusts accompanied by sleet which made the decks very dangerous.  6.30 pm.  Engines slowed down.  Much speculation as to the reason.  Recommenced at old speed half an hour later when we were again on our way North.  Picked up Eddy-stone Lght about this time on our Port Bow.  Got 40 miles out of our course through the gale, so rumour has it.  Missed Huns by a mile or two through coming up with a destroyer which escorted us to Plymouth .  Arrived in Plymouth Sound at 11.30 pm.,  Asleep when we arrived there. 
 
 
 Jan 9 
 Rose early and carried blankets for'ard to store.  The coldest morning I have ever felt.  Tenders, Sir Walter Raleigh and Sir Francis Drake, beautiful craft, came alongside 9 am.  Disembarked on Sir Francis Drake at 10 am after carrying packages from A.M.C. to tender.  Gave three cheers for Marathon and crew which they returned lustily.  Arrived Davenport Station about 11 am.  Got busy trucking stuff from pier to a store hard by.  Only too glad of a job to make one feel warm.  This done, bought and shared sweets and biscuits as this was all we could procure in the way of eats.  Got rations all packed up for entraining.  Left by L and S.W. Railway at noon and were soon on our way to our encampment.  Plenty of room and the travelling was comfortable.  Sat with Walker, Field, Martin, Hetherington, Cockett Robinson and Steel in our carriage.  Arrived Exeter.  Handed hot tea and buns.  Enjoyed them.  Tea lasted ( in water bottle) to end of journey.  Solomon left behind at Salisbury.  Arrived at destination about 10 pm.  Made way, per boot to Perham Downs Camp.  Arrived in good time and feeling hungry, about 10.30 and, after a lot of shift-ing about were shown to huts, issued with 9 blankets each and turned in without anything save a cup of "tea", after having been without a decent meal since breakfast at 4.30 am.  Slept brokenly from midnight, With Walker and was glad to get the chance of a rest, as we all were very tired.  Guard left on our baggage at the station at Ainsworth to watch it. 
 
 
 Jan 10 
 Rose 6.30.  Breakfast 7.  Parade 7.45.  Intensely cold.  Nearly froze.  Ice and frost everywhere.  Went for route march of about 3 miles and returned along the beautiful country lanes of old England.  This was only an Engineers stunt and was organised by our officers so as to give them an opportunity of wording us about our new conditions and surroundings.  Lt. Gray spoke to us about matters in general concerning the Engineers.  After a while, we returned to camp for dinner.  After dinner we paraded again.  Went for another march to get our circulation moving after standing in the cold wind. 
 
 
 
   