 a6692010.html 
 
 
 
  1916  
 6 
 
 
 Nov 25 
 Still in Durban.  No leave granted as we are leaving for Cape Town this afternoon.  Sat on poop and wat-ched coaling operations until noon.  My impression of a ship being coaled by the boys at Durban is the nearest thing to the ancient Tower of Babel that it is possible to imagine.  Had dinner and went on deck to find that we were making for the open sea.  When we got outside the breakwater we ran into a heavy swell.  Watched the pilot being dropped and passed the Dutch steamer "Sonoro" on the way out. 
 
 
 Nov 26 
 Fine weather but we are still in the swell.  Church service both morning and night.  Attended both as there was nothing else to do. 
 
 
 Nov 27 
 Sea calm again.  Sighted big steamer.  Nothing of eventful nature to-day. 
 
 
 Nov 28 
 Fine day again.  Sighted South African Coast again with its mountains and rugged landscapes.  Entered Table Bay before breakfast and lay in the stream.  Later moved into the pier for water.  Took this and provisions on.  Disappointed at not getting leave for a fly around Cape Town.  Not granted as we are leaving here to-day again.  Hope to get on the picket, but no luck.  Picket was sent ashore.  Larsen and Walker went with them.  They had a swim.  Walker went in with his wristlet on with fatal results - to his wristlet.  Sat on deck and watched proceedings on wharf and else-where.  Had a bird's eye view of the city at a few miles distance.  Much struck with the beauty and rugged grandeur of the city of Capetown's background, which rises straight up, as a range of rugged peaks, to a height of 3,400 feet above the sea.  Pulled out from wharf into stream again at 2 pm.  Coal lighters came alongside.  Watched the men catching young sharks from the ship's side.  Found the day warm and balmy but a great improvement on the heat of Durban.  Had tiffin and afterwards the Colonel gave a concert to some of his friends from shore.  Did "Gunga Din" and "How the Chestnut Horse came Home".  Well received.  During the concert H.M.S. "Kent" - our convoy - and H.M.T. "Argyllshire" arrived in port.  Then turned in on the deck, as usual and slept.  Found out the real reason of leave not being granted is that men from the "Borda" played up while on leave and that owing to sickness on  on our ship the doctor would not grant a clean ship. 
 
 
 Nov 20 
 Fine and lovely day.  Cape Town looks very pretty, especially with all the vessels in the stream.  The "Argyllshire" steamed into the pier for water.  Rose 6 am as usual and looked around until 7.30 when we had breakfast.  Had throat swabbed as a precaution against Meningitis and other troubles.  Also a Formalin Tablet three times to-day.  Our company did guard and supplied fatigues.  I was on Bakery fatigues and got some bread and cakes.  Also saw sports on deck.  Supposed to go into the apple-bobbing race but was not on spot at the time it was held.  H.M.S. "kent" moved 
 
 
 
   