 a6692007.html 
 
 
 
   
  3  
 
 
  Nov 1  
 colder as we go south.  After tea had a game of Five Hundred with some of the boys.  Turned in and slept well. 
 
 
 Nov 3 
 Have run into a little weather with head wind and rough sea. Feeling o.k 
 
 
 Nov 5 
 Sea easy again. Infantryman died and was buried at sea with full military honours. 
 
 
 Nov 8 
 Eighth day out from Sydney.  Arrived Fremantle and anchored in the stream at 6 a.m.  Good weather, but hot and sultry.  Steamer was granted pratique.  General shore leave granted from 8 am till 6 pm. Left steamer with chum Larsen and Norman Walker ar 10.15 and arrived Fremantle station at 10.30, having come ashore in a motor launch.  Paid 1/- launch and train fares both ways.  Entrained for Perth in special, arriving there at 11 am.  Sent telegrams home.  Went into Ice Cream shop for cool drinks and wrote cards and letters home.  Had Dinner at Moana Cafe.  Had a good grill and enjoyed the diversion from transport food.  After the meal, had a stroll round Perth then went for motor ride through King's Park which took but half an hour.  Raining nearly all the time. Enjoyed and appreciated the magnificent views of Perth and its environs from the park.  Had Tea.  Bought provisions and comforts for Mess and caught special train for Fremantle on the return.  Train was jammed.  Lots of men "tanked".  Douglas landed back injured and went into hospital.  Arrived back on ship again at 6.45 feeling tired, but having enjoyed the day immensely. Wrote diary and turned in.  While in Perth I called on Harry Crust at the Pavilion Theatre.  Was shown over his theatre. 
 
 
 Nov 9 
 Sailed from Fremantle at 4pm.  People gave us a great send off.  Crowds lined the shore.  Boats whistled, trains whistled, crowds cheered as did the soldiers on our boat, and the "Argyllshire"alongside.  After tea, had some harmony for an hour or two.  Sea a little rough. 
 
 
 Nov 10 
 Fine day.  Sea smooth again.  Did nothing in morning.  Comforts from Comforts Committee were opened.  Got my share of cigarettes, fruit, biscuits, Milk, Jam, etc in plenty.  We all gave cheers for the good old Comforts people. 
 
 
 Nov 14 
 Sea somewhat moderated on yesterday's showing.  Spent most of day at Morse signalling and watching teams train for coming sports competitions on the morrow.  Had a box with Norman Walker.  Have seen nothing at sea since we left Fremantle.  Held third concert at night.  Great success.  Did "Dandy Fifth" and "Ode to Kitchen-er."  Got 2 printed souvenir programs to send home. 
 
 
 