 a6692023.html 
 
 
 
  1917  
 19 
 
 
 Jan 30 
 Parade called by Lt. Col. "Pompey" Elliott on square.  Marched to Parade Ground and went through several movements of company manoeuvres for him and, proving satisfatory, were sent to trench paddock for our trouble.  Had lecture on wire entanglements and put in about 21/2 hours at the confounded stuff.  Snowing all the time.  Very cold and slow work.  After dinner, did some bag revetting in trenches and found the shelter of the trenches from the cold biting wind, very welcome.  Watched ice skating on lagoon during dinner hour.  Work inspected in afternoon by Colonel.  Left 3.30 for town and got home, only too glad to get under cover from the excessive cold.  Went for mail.  None as usual.  After tea spent evening in billet writing up lectures and diary.  Several rumors current re leaving for France shortly.  How true are they? 
 
 
 Jan 31 
 Parade 8.  Then to works near church.  Trench work and wiring all day.  Caught fresh cold, in spite of all precautions.  Spent evening at home alone, nearly dead with coughing, and slunk away to bed with a hot lemon in one hand and a handkerchief in the other.  Slept badly. 
 
 
 Feb 1 
 Rose and paraded as usual.  Feel rotten.  Should have gone sick as I felt weak and have a proper attack of Flu.  However, I carried on and longed for the long and tedious day's ending.  By the time I reached billet again I was beaten.  Stayed in and had tea and then had hot bath and felt degrees better.  Had much better night. 
 
 
 Feb 2 
 Parade 8.  Robinson and self detailed by Lt. Gray to write out leave passes for our Coy.  While doing this Col. Andrewather came in and ordered us to our training.  Sorry and sore at losing our comfy "possy" we left town at 10 am amd walked out to works.  Carried on in tren-ches till dinner time.  Had dinner and then got on to some hurry-up wiring work.  Spent evening by fire reading and eating some Italian oranges which I had bought.  Had haircut.  News of Hun submarine campaign and much speculation as to America's attitude thereto.  Not frightened of the Hun business, the other a big ?. 
 
 
 Feb 3 
 Parade 9.  Marched to Recreation Ground and did Coy. drill on the snow-covered ground for 2 hours.  Then marched back to square and dismissed about 11.30.  Went for mail and got none.  Got cover design for booklet from Tim Woods and went to station to catch train on leave for Colchester.  Went with Ted Luscombe, Tim Woods, Frank Ward and Jim Johnstone in the 12.10 train arriving there about 12.40.  Met Herb Larsen outside station and the lot of us went and had a good dinner at Wright's restaurant, which dinner cost us 3/- each.  Walked round the town and saw all sights such as the Old Roman Wall, Guard Room, St Peters Church, Old Roman 
 
 
 
   