a6692034.html



1917
30


Apl 11
Parade 8.  Church farm all day cleaning up.  Left 3.45.  No mail.  Tea.  After tea sent kit bag to Mrs Linley containg all my treasures.  Posted home mail.  After that went to Holloway's with Walter Willey to say Good bye to them.  Returned to billet at 10 and turned in.  Rang up Mrs Linley as usual this evening.


Apl 12
Parade 7.45.  Cold.  Went to Rec. Grounds to have District Court Martial read on a prisoner.  Put on Draft for France.  Dismissed at 9.  Paraded again at 10.30.  Inspection.  Dismissed.  Dinner.  Parade 2.  Inspected by Major Cutler.  Dismissed.  Rang Mrs Linley.  Called and said good bye again to Holloways.  Tea.  Parade 6.10.  Marched to store for rations.  Harold Low left behind from draft with Noble.  Got 10.18.  Marched through city of London to London Bridge Station.  Met Mr Brooke who had followed us from Liverpool Street.  Gave me a book of poems by Rupert Brooke and a box of peppermint creams to prevent me from being seasick.  Did not see Linley's as we were not at the station on time, being late.  Rang them up from station and said good bye at 11.30.  Went into waiting room.  Left at 2.45 for Folkestone by a special and arrived there at 5.30.  Put into billets and slept till 8.  Breakfast.  Wash etc.,  Spent morning walking and promenading round and writing in Rec. Rooms.  Sat in and enjoyed the sun with Walter, Herb and Walter Willey.  Embarked on paddle steamer at Folkestone in afternoon.  There seemed to be thousands on her.  A packet about the size and design of the old "Newcastle" of Sydney.  Crossed the Channel amid a cordon of destroyers which extended from Folkestone to Boulogne.  Arrived at Boulogne at about 6.  Marched from quay to camp at wireless station on "One Blanket HIll, so named from the sad fact that the maximum issue of blankets at this hospitable place is one, in which you are supposed to wrap yourself and slumber peacefully and warmly.  Twelve men were put into tents and there was not sufficient room left, when all were lain down, to put your wristlet watch without someone lying on it.


Apl14
Left Boulogne at 11 for Etaples, by train.  A distance of about 11 miles or so which took until 3.30 to cover.  Got there without mishap and went into camp and training at the Bull-ring.


Apl 15
Church parade.  Wet all day.  Rotten camp life.


Apl 16
Musketry at bull ring.


Apl 17
Gas school.



Apl 18 )
Apl 19 )
Apl 20 )
Apl 21 )
to )
Apl 24 )

Still at Etaples.  On cook fatigues and the various other monotonous ossupations of a drafting camp.



 