a6692064.html



1918
60


Mar 8
Spent all morning with John.  After dinner I was boar-ded by Colonel Newmarch of North Sydney and marked C3 - for Australia.  John had tea with me and then we went up to the village to find a lodging for John.  He got fixed up.


Mar 9
Spent morning with John in camp.  After dinner, we and George Bradd caught the bus into Weymouth.  Went to Pictures.  Had tea.  Then met two other hut mates and all went together to see "Within the Law" at the Pavilion Theatre at the end of the Ocean Pier.  Caught bus home after and thus ended a most enjoyable day.  Gave John an Ingersoll watch for a present.


Mar 10
Went to church - compulsorily - in morning.  Saw John after church.  Had dinner and then went and spent the afternoon at his lodgings.  Had a nice tea there and at 7.30 came back to camp and turned in.


Mar 11
Met John at 9.30.  Got pay and book back.  Spent morn-ing at Recreation Rooms writing letters.  Spent after-noon likewise.  John sewed my colors on my tunic and helped me to pack my bags.  At 4 pm Scotty Hiddle-ton, John and I went into Weymouth for the evening.  Had tea - eggs and sausages - and then did some shopping.  We then had more eggs and toast.  Then we went to the Jubilee Hall to see a vaudeville show.  Caught car back to camp arriving there at 8.30.  Had supper at Church Army Hut.  John made my bed and then went off to his lodging for the night.  Coming again in the morning to say good-bye to me.


Mar 12
Rose 7.  John came to say good-bye.  Went along the road with him.  Did not like his going a bit.  He left at 7.45.  Spent morning writing.  Spent afternoon on fatigues carrying and stuffing paliases with straw.  After that went along to see Jack's late landlady and had a cup of tea there.  Came back and had supper at Hut.  Wrote John and sent home mail on to him.  Turned in at 9.


Mar 13
Rose 7.  Had breakfast.  Spent morning playing cards and writing letters in Y.M.C.A.  Had hot bath in after-noon.  After tea went for walk with Scotty to see the old lady and took our washing along.  Came back and had supper.  Then turned in.


Mar 14
Rose 7.30.  After breakfast went to Orderly Room and found I was C3 and no duties.  Spent morning in YMCA writing.  Spent afternoon in hut writing home.  Left camp at 4 and took a car into Weymouth.  Had tea with Scotty an then went to see "Chorus Lady" at the Pavilion.  Very poor show.  Got back to camp at 8.30.  Had supper and turned in.


Mar 15
Rose 7.  Parade 9.  Volunteered for Runner in Orderly Room.  Pay day in at it.  Proved too much for me.



 