 a6692051.html 
 
 
 
  1917  
 47 
 
 
 Sep 19 
 Rose 3 am.  Fell in 3.45.  Caught motor lorry on road out to work in front of Ypres.  Had to cover Culverts with corduroy so as to make them passable for Tanks in the coming stunt.  Returned 10.30 am.  Breakfast.  Had rest of day off and spent it putting iron roof on dugout, making it safer and more comfortable.  Had visit from John at 11.30 to tell he he was warned for duty in front line as runner in the coming stunt. 
 
 
 Sep 20 
 Had day off till 2.  Fell in and marched out to Shrapnel Corner.  Hell of a place.  Desolation and destruction unspeakable.  Went out with party to fill in a road crater on the Zillebeke Ridge.  Came back and returned to Camp for night.  Watched Fritz attack balloons and drive down their occupants in parachutes. 
 
 
 Sep 21 
 Day off till 5.  Had warning for duty.  Saw Norman Walker on his way back from the line.  Looked very dirty and neglected and wondered if his little wifie would know him as he was that day.  Spent most of day helping Herb fix door on dugout.  Went out at 5.30 through Hellfire Corner to ridge beyond.  Got into a barrage andstayed in trenches for an hour while it lasted.  Had an anxious time.  Saw balloon come down in flames.  Watched our guns open in answer to Fritz barrage.  A very awe inspiring and terrific xxxx sight.  Worked putting elephant iron and sandbags on dressing station until 11.30 and set out for dugout arriving there about 1 am. tired and utterly exhausted.  Slept as soon as I lay down.  Too tired to get something to eat, though starving.  Did not awaken until John called at 8.30 next morning. 
 
 
 Sep 22 
 John called and had breakfast with me.  He went to his camp later.  After lunch, I went over to his camp to see him.  Had day off on account of last night's heavy work. 
 
 
 Sep 23 
 Left Billets for Zillebeke Lake and line work.  Arrived destination 3.30.  Had tea and then set out to fix up an R.E. dump on Hooge heights.  Started back about 9.  After losing way arrived at dugout at 11, tired. 
 
 
 Sep 24 
 Set out at 9 for Hooge again to load pack mules with dump material.  Fritz shelling roads as hard as blazes.  Waited an/hour or more for lull in shelling.  There did not seem to be a safe place anywhere in this dreadful region of destruction and death.  Got going about 10.30 and, after loading mules, set out with them to advanced Dump in Glencorse Wood.  Took stuff off the poor beasts and set out again for home.  Arr-ived there 2, thoroughly knocked up and shaken.  Stripped off and had bath in shell hole with Herb.  Felt much refreshed.  Spent rest of day in dugout resting.  Weather perfect. 
 
 
 
   