a6692032.html



1917
28


March 30
Parade 8.  Feeling good after physicing and the total absence of toothache.  Beautiful morning.  Real Spring, and how pleasant.  Church grounds all day revetting trenches.  Took it easy.  Returned town at at 4.45.  Tea.  Lecture on war in S.A. Hall at 6.  Bath at 7.  Returned to billet and spent evening as usual.


March 31
Parade 8.  Raining hard.  Dismissed till 9.45.  Fell in again then and marched to Church grounds.  Unloaded lorry of sand and, not wanting to get wet on account of being on draft, Major Gregson sent C4 home.  Dinner.  Spent the dull and disagreeable afternoon at home in cleaning up my boots and equipment.  Went to Rec. Room for tea at 5.  Returned to billet and stayed in all evening and read and wrote.  Day ended dark and cold and threateningly for the morrow.


April 1
Breakfast in billet.  Steak, eggs, toast etc.  Parade 9.30.  Church till 11.  Had tea with Norman Walker and Ken Wardhaugh and then went for mail.  Got parcel from Mrs Linley containing Cake, Pork Pie, Cigarettes, sweets etc. and a gold mounted cigarette holder.  Dinner.  Got kit ready for inspection which did not come off, owing to the severe weather conditions.  Big fall of snow making everything murky and as unlike spring as it is possible to imagine.  After taking kit to Rec. Ground returned to billet and stayed there reading till tea time.  Tea,  Had this in billet from the good things that came from Mrs Linley yesterday.  A lovely meal.  Stayed at billet all evening.  did some reading and the continuous writing on my pat malone, which is a welcome change to the company of cackling of infamous females who turn the house into a bedlam of slander and back-biting.


April 2
Parade 8.  Cold and dull.  Church ground trenches all day.  Raining on and off all the time.  Very mucky.  Got fairly wet and, not having a change with me, being equipped for the draft, Major Gregson allowed us to go home as soon as we had had our lunch.  Arrived town at 1.  Went to billet and cleaned up.  Read till 4.  Rang up Mrs Linley.  Had tea.  Kit inspection at 6.30.  Returned to billet at 7 and spent evening reading.


April 3
Parade 8.  Ground covered with snow inches thick, which thawed as the day wore on and made things unbearable.  Church all day on trenches.  Did hard day's work.  Plenty of showers again.  Sunny off and on.  Town 4.30.  Rang Mrs Linley. Tea.  Returned billet and spent even-ing there.  Just heard that we are leaving for the front on the 12th and have every reason to believe it is true.


April 4
Parade.  Lovely morning.  Church grounds all day.  Shovelled and barrowed sand.  Enjoyed the work in the gorgeous xxxx sun.  Town 4.30.  Rang Mrs Linley.  Spent evening in billet finishing "Daughter of Brahma."



 