 a6692039.html 
 
 
 
  1917  
 35 
 
 
 May 13 
 the Somme front.  Some crater.  Managed to get it nearly filled.  Returned to billet at 4.  Found I had left my gas helmets where I was working.  Had to rush back for them as we had received orders to fall in in full pack ready for another march.  Got back to billet only to find that the company had started on their way and nobody knew whence there were making.  Set out on the road at a quick pace in the hope of catching the company up.  Marching in full pack at the pace I was making soon wore me out and I found the company spelling on the side of the road.  Got to them just as they began to march again and had to fall in and march along with them.  Did the next spell of marching and when the halt came, I felt faint and spent.  Luckily, we spelled opposite a canteen where Larsen went and got me a bottle of sodawater which revived me somewhat.  Got to a place which proved to be Favrieul, to the left and in front of Bapaume.  A most delightful and pretty place, though somewhat battered and knocked about, but a veritable paradise after Valux.  Went into a commodious and fairly comfortable billet belonging to the old Chateau where we were away from the continued roar of howitzers and other engines of war. 
 
 
 May 14 
 Rose 6.30.  Gave blanket in.  Marched to Vaulx and proceeded with the work of finishing the filling in of the crater.  Saw big aerial fight wihch was most exciting.  Left Vaulx at 3.30 and got wet to the skin coming back in the rain. 
 
 
 May 15 
 Rose 6.30.  Programme the same as yesterday.  Got pay in evening 1/9/4. 
 
 
 May 16 
 Rose 6.30.  Wet.  Vaulx all day repairing roads.  Fritz gave us a quiet day. 
 
 
 May 17 
 Rose 6.30.  Wet.  Same as yesterday.  Had Bath at divisional baths. 
 
 
 May 18 
 Rose 6.30.  Brighter and finer day.  Did same as yesterday. 
 
 
 May 19 
 Rose 6.  Breakfast 8.  Marched to old billet at Vaulx and got position in cellar.  Arrived 9.15.  Fritz fairly active again.  Marched in open order to the sunken road in reserve positions and did work on dugouts that was started by the other sections a week or so ago. 
 
 
 May 20 
 Rose 6.  Breakfast.  Went to same position as yesterday and worked there all day.  Nothing unusual.  Fritz quiet.  Put some shells close to our billet in the early hours.  Returned to billet for night. 
 
 
 May 21 
 Rose 7.30.  Parade 9.45.  Marched to Favrieul again in full pack leaving this horrid and stricken region in our rear, I hope for good.  Got wet on our way back. 
 
 
 
   