 a6692053.html 
 
 
 
  1917  
 49 
 
 
 Sep 26 
 up, with what strength I had left in my poor eyes, and there, bending over me, was Walter Willey.  He told me he would get a stretcher party for me.  I lay there suffering hell for what seemed an age, and then he came back with a party of Red Cross men.  They stripped me and bandaged me as well as they could and, after putting me in the stretcher, set out with me, with Walter Willey as one of the bearers.  I remember nothing more of this day until I awoke in a cot in Liverpool Merchants Hospital, Etaples, feeling very groggy and sorry.  Admitted to Hospital with right eye completely destroyed, fractured rib and several body wounds.  Condition serious.  (This is the bulletin of my case at time of admission). 
 
 
 
 Sep 27 
     28 
 
 Don't remember much, but suffered badly. 
 
 
 Sep 29 
 Asked Orderly to send card to Mrs Linley telling her what had happened and where I was.  Also got him to write Jack and Larsen as to my whereabouts. 
 
 
 Sep 30 
 Gradually improving.  Not so well to-day. 
 
 
 
 Oct 1 
 Oct 19 
 
 Condition not improved during this period.  Had Doctor examine me.  He pronounced Empyaema.  Told me he would have to operate and that it would make a great change in my condition.  Only too glad to have anything that will alter things for me. 
 
 
 Oct 20 
 Operated on at noon.  Felt better on coming to.  Had cut on right side with tubes inserted to drain puss away. 
 
 
 
 Oct 21 
 Oct 31 
 
 Progressing rapidly now all the time.  Attention in this hospital all that could be desired.  In fact, it seems more like Heaven than a hospital.  All the sisters darlings.  In love with the lot of them.  Appetite growing.  Side discharging well and Doctor and sisters pleased with my progress. 
 
 
 Nov 1-4 
 Still improving.  Writing capabilities coming back again  Received my diary this day (4/11/17).  Terribly bucked at getting it back and glad I took the precautions I did for its preservation.  Spent all afternoon looking through it. 
 
 
 Nov 5 
 Spent hour or so writing up the last month's diary records.  Big job.  Feeling good now.  Side beginning to heal and growing irritable.  Received lovely toilet holdall from O.G.B. and his sister.  A beautiful thing. 
 
 
 Dov 6 
 Wet and dull and cold outside.  Feel well.  Got 2 parcels.  One from Mrs Linley and other from Mrs Shellshear containing Safety Razor outfit in nickelled case. 
 
 
 
   