 a6692025.html 
 
 
 
  1917  
 21 
 
 
 Feb 9 
 lunch under the Central feeding scheme, which deprived us of the extreme pleasure of having our rations cooked by the proprietor of our billet and served up to us and eaten like civilised men should eat it.  Spent afternoon filling up shaft we had been busy making all the past week.  Returned town at 4.  Got more letters from home.  Had Tea under the new scheme.  Rotten.  Not as good as the old billet teas.  Everybody is dissatisfied with the change in the messing arrangement.  Hope for an improvement in them soon.  November Rein-forcements from Moore Park arrived to-night.  Went to see them.  Bathed sore feet after suffering from them terribly all day.  Spent evening in billet reading. 
 
 
 Feb 10 
 Breakfast 7.20.  Not bad.  Returned to billet till 8.45.  Parade 9.  Went for route march.  Got pay 30/-.   Also Xmas parcel from  of  Mona Rowson of Mackay, Q.  Went to Q.M. and got stuff.  Had good dinner.  No mail.  Spent afternoon in billet reading and writing.  Wrote to Miss Rowson thanking her for parcel containing Tobacco, Pipe, sweets, shaving soap, cigarettes, envelopes and paper, pencil, soup powder and condensed milk.  All hands got a box of these things after being paid this afternoon.  Had tea and spent evening writing and reading and the usual smoking.  Feet much relieved after last night's treatment. 
 
 
 Feb 11 
 Rose 8.15.  Breakfast in billet.  Church parade 9.30.  Got mail after.  4 letters.  Spent part of afternoon in Recreation Room, finding about a lady here who is looking for me.  Got her name - the Hon. Mrs Bateman.  Had tea at Rec. Room and returned to billet to spend evening in the usual reading and writing. 
 
 
 Feb 12 
 Parade 8.  Physical jerk lecture till 9.  Marched to Mine fields  Lecture on sapping.  Spent afternoon in a sap.  Returned town 4.  No mail.  After tea, men marched in a body to R. E. Officers Mess to complain of food to Orderly Officer.  Went to lecture in Sal-vation Hall.  Returned to Billet 7.45 and spent rest of evening by fire reading. 
 
 
 Feb 13 
 Parade 8.  Mine field 9.  Task work finished 2.15.  Returned town.  Arrived 3.15.  Went billet and cleaned up after sapping all day.  Had tea and, being too tired did not go to Lecture on Lille front.  Stayed in billet and read.  Turned in early after supper.  No letters to-day.  Messing much improved. 
 
 
 Feb 14 
 Parade 8.  Jerks till 9.  Minefields 10.  Task work in blind sap all day.  Finished 2.45.  Returned town 3.50.  No Mail.  Tea.  Lecture.  Returned to billet and spent evening by fire.  Turned in early feelling tired. 
 
 
 Feb 15 
 Parade 8.  Minefields.  Task on blind sap.  Cut out at 
 
 
 
   