a6692057.html



1917
53


Dec 17
Feel much better this morning.  Quite happy at idea of getting some money to rattle at last.  S. M. O. inspec-ted whole of ward.  Fruit distributed by Sister from children of Camden Street Infants school.


Dec 19
Feel good.  Got two more parcels from home.  Terribly bucked.  Got 5 lbs of sweets ofall kinds.  Parcels from home were Xmas parcels and were full of nice eatable things.  Most welcome.  Longing to be home with all the boys and girls.  Doing a lot of hard thinking.  Visiting day.  None for me again.  Had 1 from John for Xmas through Mrs Shellshear.  Wrote letters after tea.


Dec 20
Feel good.  Side not sore this morning but have a slight cold.  Slept all afternoon  Too cold to write.


Dec 21
Feel O.K.  Side a little sore.  Had washout.  Got X Ray report and plates showing 2 pieces of shell in head.  Got big muffler from Mrs Linley.  Glad to get it.  Sent Larsen's on to him to-day, it having been sent to me by Mrs Linley when sending mine to me.


Dec 22
Feel a bit off on account of cold.  Slept nearly all day


Dec 23
Still off color.  Sore in joints.  Visiting day.  None for me again.  Slept nearly all day.


Dec 24
Still off.  Xmas Eve.  Plenty of cheer from the Bir-mingham folk.  Got Xmas Box from Australian Red Cross.  Also, scarf, writing pad, chocolate and cigarettes from nursing staff of the ward.  Carols sung by school children in evening.


Dec 25
Xmas Day.  Feel much better as the result of aspirin.  Plenty of cheer and promise of spending a very happy day.  Ham and pork pie for breakfast.  Dinner - Gawd Mayor of Birmingham read message from King George to the troops.  One of the M.O's dressed as a French Chef and officiated at the carving of the Xmas meal.  Had heaps of good things to eat. Turkey, Duck, Ham, Fruits and nuts and all the good things that one associates with xxx this day.  Had a really lovely dinner and I thoroughly enjoyed it.  Music in afternoon and a concert after tea given by the boys in the ward.  Felt a bit off through eating Pudding so slept through most of it.


Dec 26
Boxing Day. Feel much better though I spent a restless night.  Visiting day.  Plenty of kind people came and brought nice things to me.  Had music after tea.


Dec 27
Feel good this morning.  Slept most of day.  Whist drive after tea.  Did not play.



 