a6692043.html



1917
39


June 20
Marched till 12.  Reached Ribemont and rested there for lunch.  Had nice lunch/and then meandered with Herb along the canal banks in the shade of the glorious trees that grow along its banks.  Truly a restful sight and one to make light heavy hearts.  Fell in again at 2 and resumed our way towards Corbie, whence we arrived about 3 and put into the cleanest and most comfortable billet we have yet experienced.  I think the march from Bouzincourt to Corbie is over a route which is, by far, the prettiest and most entrancing that I experienced.  I enjoyed every yard of it in spite of the heaviness of the pack and the eternal sweat which makes one's "bloomin' eyebrows crawl."  Spent rest of evening in getting cleaned and making our positions in billet comfortable and convenient.  Very taken with Corbie's prospects as it as yet bears no imprint of the Hun's devilish destruction.


June 21
Parade 8.  Went to the banks of the Somme River all day for pontoon practice.  Had lovely day in this delightfully peaceful spot away from the roar of war.  Spent evening writing at billet.


June 22
Rose 6.  Left town for Senlis on dental parade, a distance of about 16 miles, close to Bouzincourt.  Went on bike with Red.  Had tooth fixed.  Arrived there feeling cold and numbed through riding through the cold wind.  Had not taken any lunch with us.  Dentist took compassion on us and gave orders to his orderly to have some hot cocoa and biscuits prepared for us.  Jolly decent of him and we did not forget to acquaint him of our gratitude for his kindness.  Set out again on our way back with a head wind all the way, making riding very hard and tiring.  Pulled up on the way to pick some cherries that grew on a tree in a paddock off the road a wee bit.  Just beginning to enjoy when the old French Madame comes out and starts to roar us up for eating her cherries which she had guarded so well and noisily for the benefit of her pigs.  A party of Fritz prisoners working on the road were as highly amused at her exhibition of illustrated speech as were we.  After telling her to go to every place except Heaven, in Australian, we leapt the fence and getting on our bikes, resumed our journey towards Corbie.  We reached there without further mishap or event worthy of note.  Turned in and read, as I felt a bit "under-done" after riding so far on a bike, and not being used to it.


June 23
Rose 6.  Parade 8.  Pontooning all morning.  Spent after noon washing and reading big batch of mail from home.


June 24
Granted full day's leave to Amiens.  Proceeded thence per train from Corbie, leaving about 9.  Loved this city with a passion, visiting all the chief things of interest such as the Cathedral, Law Courts, etc.



 