 a6692047.html 
 
 
 
  1917  
 43 
 
 
 July 31 
 Wallon Capelle with Tim Woods.  Returned to billet at about 8 and turned in on a straw bed, such a luxury after concrete, bricks, stones, galvanized iron, etc. 
 
 
 Aug 1 
 Wet.  Gas Drill in billet.  Got paid 1/9/4. 
 
 
 Aug 2 
 Route march all morning into Hazebrouck.  Musketry and Gas Lecture in afternoon in sun. 
 
 
 Aug 3 
 Route march, 12 miles, through Staples and Hazebrouck.  Rained all way.  Marching in coats wore most of us out.  Wet through on our return.  Spent rest of day in billet trying to get dry. 
 
 
 Aug 4 
 War anniversary.  Gas drill and Lewis Gun lecture in morning.  Leave to Hazebrouck in afternoon.  Went there per boot and stopt in to an estaminet on the way and had some champagne.  Good stuff.  It was wet nearly all the time we were there.  We hunted round for a good place to eat at and, not being able to locate such a thing, came to the conclusion that the place was "no bon".  A large town but like the usual run of the Flemish towns. 
 
 
 Aug 5 
 Parade 9.  Kit inspection.  Snowy Thompson explained to Lt. Clarke that he lost his overcoat in the "big battle of the Somme," much to the enjoyment of the section.  The remark caused much amusement. 
 
 
 Aug 6 
 Fine day.  Lecture and practice with Mills Bombs all morning.  Afternoon.  Barrel piering practice. 
 
 
 Aug 7 
 Fiine.  Barrel piering all morning.  Afternoon.  Had to erect an aerial roadway.  Very interesting and successful demonstration. 
 
 
 Aug 8 
 Fine.  Route march in morning.  Semaphoring all afternoon. 
 
 
 Aug 9 
 Fine.  Lecture on Mills Bombs in morning.  Semaphoring afternoon. Hazebrouck heavily shelled to-day.  Could hear it.  Expect leave to St Omer to-morrow. 
 
 
 Aug 10 
 On leave to St Omer.  Went to Hazebrouck to catch train.  While waiting, Fritz shelled the town again.  Arrived St Omer without mishap.  Had dinner at 1.30 at Expeditionary Force Canteen.  A Good place.  Herb, Red and I then went over the town and had a rest in the beautiful park.  Had tea and then went out after souvenirs.  Bought Eagle Brooch and sent it home from there.  Also Joan of Arc Medallion.  Left St Omer by train at 8.45.  Got to billet 10.35 tired and sore footed.  Turned in pot haste.  Learned from Bisset that John was in billet near St Omer, but had not then the time to go and see him. 
 
 
 
   