a6692060.html



1918
56


Jan 25
Feel great.  Finished fancywork.  Up all the after-noon by the fire.


Jan 26
Aussie's Birthday.  Feel good to-day again.  Up from 5 am till 7 by fire.  Spent morning writing letters in bed as it is too cold to be out of it.  Spent afternoon by fire.


Jan 27
Feel very well.  Wrote after dressing.  Not up much to-day as there was no wheel chair to get about in.  Visiting day again.  Mrs james and Mrs Humphries came to see me.


Jan 28
Up at 5 by fire.  Up again after breakfast and dinner.  Had tea with Mrs Hughes at Canteen in afternoon.


Jan 29
Field Day.  Wrote letters after dressing.  Up in afternoon and after tea.


Jan 30
Wrote all morning.  Visiting day.  Had Mrs James and Mrs Humphries to see me as usual.  Up to-day for about 5 hours.


Jan 31
Spent all morning writing.  Up in afternoon and evening.


Feby 1
Feel very well.  Wrote in morning.  Spent afternoon at fancywork.


Feb 2
Started on fancywork at 6 am and kept at it all the morning.  Had a big bunch of mail from home.  Got the very sad news of dear old Sparks' death.  Feel very sad and miserable about it, as I felt that the day was drawing nigh when I would set out for home to see him once again.  It is not to be.


Feby 3
All bandages and dressing dispensed with after a long and sickening time.  Feel much relieved both in body and mind at the welcome change and turn of events.  Spent morning writing.  Visiting Day.  Had the usual dear folks to see me.


Feby 4
Feel very well.  Up early.  Paraded to M/O about leaving for Harefield and Home.  Marked out.  Spent morning writing.  Up all day till 6.  Glad to get into bed again.


Feby 5
Feel well.  Rose 8 and stayed up all day.


Feby 6
Rose 9 and wrote all morning.  Went to X-Ray to have plates taken of face.  Got word about leaving for Harefield to-morrow morning.  Terribly bucked.


Feby 7
Rose 5 with a bad attack of the duck's complaint.  Drew kit at 6.30.  Breakfast.  Left Hospital by motor at 8.30.  In train from 9 till 1.  Felt rotten.  Got out at Denham and took motor to Harefield Hospital.  Glad to get there  Felt done up.  Had good dinner - 5 sausages and got into my "blues."



 