 a6692037.html 
 
 
 
  1917  
 33 
 
 
 May 7 
 the Homeric struggles were fought, to decide as to who were the masters of this strategically important region  and  dominating position of the Somme fields.  A visit to these mangled and sore tried fields and forests, that must have been once so fair and fragrant, was not too reassuring to men who had, as yet, to receive their baptism in modern war's horrid and decimating fire.  However, the more we looked on at these things, which were the work of the Hun and those that are his, the more the strength of deter-mination grew within us to go seek the beast in his lair, and do all that lay within us towards his extermination.  Returned to Camp after picking up several souvenirs from off the field, with which Herb hopes to be able to make something worthy of the sacrifice which every inch of this country could tell of, could it but speak. 
 
 
 May 8 
 Wet day.  No parades.  Cleaned equipment and stayed in camp all day, writing and lolling about. 
 
 
 May 9 
 Parade 7.  Marched out of Mametz Camp at 7.15 on the way to Bazentin Circus, near Delville Wood.  We entrained there on the Anzac Light Railway for Bapaume.  Train ran off the line while we were on our way and, as a consequence, we were considerably delayed.  Saw and passed the second Division A.I.F coming out of the line and, thinking Lambert McKenzie may be with them, went over to see.  Had no luck in this direction.  Reached Bapaume and detrained.  Marched through this much stricken town and on to the Aviation Park to the East of it, where we halted, piled arms, and were/dismissed for lunch, of which we were ready and pleased to partake.  On the road again at 1.15 bound for Vaulx, a ruined village behind the main Bullecourt positions of the Hindenburg line.  Arrived there 4.  Camped on the left side of the road, to the rear of the village, in dugouts, in a position that seems to be surrounded by guns and ammunition dumps.  Does not savor of safety.  This was my really first contact with the grim actuality of ware under modern conditions.  The barking of our guns seems to give an assurance of safety to one, that is quite absent when h  firing ceases and one hears the boom of the enemy's cannon, the shrill shriek of his shell through the air, and the sickening detonation of its explosion, as it hits, something or some unfortunate piece of humanity, which Fate had put between it and safety.  Being tired after xxxxx a hard day's marching, Larsen and I turned in for the night.  Had a gas alarm about midnight and were ordered to put our masks on.  Did so and then got the"all clear whistle", when we were permitted to remove the mask and once more resume the sleep that had been so rudely disturbed. 
 
 
 May 10 
 Rose 7.  Fritz got busy soon after xxxxxx breakfast keeping on all through the day and blazing at the 
 
 
 
   