She rolls like a drunken man, and so do the boys on board. Walking in a decent way is impossible, and it becomes an amusing nuisance to have to shift from one position to another. Nearly all are down to it, both offices and men, and instead of the usual regimental activity and alacrity of action, utter confusion and chaos reigns. The men do not spring to attention with the click of the heels as they did three short days ago. Thus the long miserable hours of the day pass, and the seasick men are again in slumber lying, before "Last post" and "lights out" echo on the stillness of the night.
On the advent of the 3rd day at sea, the boys are beginning to get accustomed to the conditions, and as the seasickness wears off, they begin to move about more freely, and take a little nourishment. In a few hours they will be soldiers again, and the usual smile and "cheerio" will make them glad to be alive. A few more appear at mess, and there is less food left over at the end of the meal. Now they are moving about on the deck, and get about like the real Jack Tar. The "digger" has found his sea legs. Consequently with the return of health, something must be given them to do to keep them from mischief, so work soon begins in real earnest. The men must be exercised and kept busy, otherwise sickness of another kind might be the result. Orders are given that at "Reveille" the men must rise, dress, roll blankets and hammocks, and place them on the mess tables. One man of each mess is detailed to collect the hammocks, and place them in a large bin. The men then wash, do odd jobs for themselves, and make ready for breakfast. Mess orderlies are selected, and men who are naturally gifted for such work, generally take over these duties for the voyage at a nominal amount per week from each man in the mess. This is a good scheme, and works out well in most cases. The mess orderlies are of course, immune from other duties and fatigues. At the call of "Cookhouse" at 7-30 a.m. the men go down to breakfast, which consists of porridge, stew, bread and jam, and cheese. When breakfast is over, the Mess orderlies wash up the dishes, scrub the mess tables, floor, and forms, while the men get ready for the "Fall in" at 10 a.m., and for inspection at 11 a.m. The decks are washed down, and everything put in order, lavatories and wash houses are hosed out, and the ship made as clean as possible. About 11 a.m. the men are lined up and stand to attention while the C.O. Troops and officers make their inspection of both men and ship, after which "Carry on" is blown and they go on with their duties as before. Sick parades are called both morning and afternoon, and the sick men are treated by the doctor. (Note Call:- 6694 won't go sick any more, the poor beggars dead).
At the Call of "Fall in" all units parade on their own troop decks. Routine orders are read to them, the fatigues are told off, while the remainder of the men engage in drill. Each Unit on board has its period for supplying men for Fatigue Duty, Guards c. The period is for one week at a time, from Monday till the following Monday, and men are supplied to the Butcher, Baker, Cookhouse (for peeling potatoes, and preparing vegetables for meals) together with numerous duties that are necessary each day on a troopship. The Guard is composed of 2 N.C.Os (1 Sgt 1 Cpl)) and 18 men, and each man does 2 hours on, and 4 hours off, duty. They are posted at different parts of the ship, some guarding the guns on the port and starboard side of the ship, and at the stern, while others are on duty at the Isolation Hospital, Guard room, and at other prohibited places.
Drill is continued till 11-45 a.m. when the bugler blows the "Retire". All the men are then ready for the welcome strains of "Cookhouse", which is heard at 12 midday, announcing that dinner is ready.
The meal consists of Roast meat (Mutton, Beef, Rabbit) and tripe is sometimes served in stew and vegetables in the way of potatoes, cabbage, Pumpkin, Carrots, Peas, and Haricot Beans. For Pudding, we have Boiled Rice, Sago, Tapioca, and sometimes Plum Pudding. Bread, Butter, Jam, Treacle, and Cheese are nearly always obtainable, so it must be understood that a soldier's meal on board ship is good, and complaints are few. A man must be very fussy to take exception to the above mentioned food.