  
 hands warmly with both & again saluting wished them the very best of happiness. 
 As the days went on & improvement in wounds was apparent, the Doctors inspection each morning was followed with interest & his instructions to the Sister in charge were eagerly awaited. A Corporal who had been in the next bed to the Sentry in Calais & was in the same compartment on the train & was again in the next bed at Bradford was marked to be transferred to the Australian Convalescent Home at Harefield The Sentry was hoping to be sent along with him. 
 The Corporal was told to hold himself in readiness to move away at any time & he had to go & receive his issue of clothing & also his Australian Uniform from the Store. Three or four days went by but nothing further was heard about it. In the meantime all the enjoyment of Motor Car rides & picnics to the houses of the highest people about were indulged in to the fullest extent as well as using every spare moment to go down town. 
 If two solders were seen to be having a meal in any of the resturants in Bradford it was quite a common thing to be told a Gentleman at the back wishes to have the pleasure of paying for your meal? & no refusal would be taken. We cannot ourselves go to the war! (they would reply) so it makes us feel, by paying, as if we were doing a little to help you. 
 In one instance before the amount of the meal could be ascertained, the gentleman left a sum that more than covered the cost & the waitress stated there was "1/6" change. She was very pleased indeed when told to keep it as a tip. 
 Much to the surprise of every one, the wound of the Sentry appeared to be making such progress, that he was not surprised to be marked to go to Harefield. The Sentry left Bradford three days before the Corporal who had already been marked some time before. 
 When leaving, the sister in Charge specially introduced the sentry to the Matron of the whole Hospital & explained that he was one of seven Australians who were in her care. She stated that when advice was received that 
