
could have been "put on", which was quite impossible.
In two days the "draft" for France was "played out of the Camp" at nearly midnight, entrained for Folkstone & after one night there embarked on one of three "Troopers" for Le Havre.
The same precautions in going across the Channel were taken. An Airship overhead to watch for sunken submarines, & destroyers out in front & on each beam, keeping a sharp lookout for periscopes. When almost entering the port the Airship came down quite low immediately overhead, blew a horn, & calling out distinctly, the Pilot could be heard wishing the men "Over the top with the best of luck". He was at once given three cheers, & turning for England he sailed away at full speed.
Landing at Le Havre the men were marched to a camp & that night received the first taste of French mud, rain & misery. Everything wet & muddy & nothing to eat. Luckily a few "spotted" a canteen & having money bought sufficient for tea & breakfast for the "tent" (10 men)
Starting out next morning the men were marched to the Railway Station & entrained for Etaples (Etaps) the Australian base in France, from which every man completes his outfit for the line. At Etaples it is customary to give all re-inforcements or men entering France for the first time at least 3 weeks very solid drill at a place about 3 miles from the Camp, aptly designated by the suffering men "The Bull Ring".
Men who have already been in the firing line are only detained here long enough to receive all their regulation outfit, when they are dispatched by railway to "join up" their own unit.
Before "moving off" for the front a final medical examination is officially made but at times it appears so perfunctionary as to be rather farcical. Men pass through a hut in single file, & most of the time the Medical officer simply says "You're alright ar'nt you? & it is only when a man insists on being thoroughly examined, that the procession momentarily stops, while the man to be examined steps aside.
