  
 & pointed out an aeroplane the size of a bee, That is a Hun Machine & we dare not let him see our positions There will be no firing till our planes put him out of action or make him decend. He came on, but looking round one or two British, or Allied Machines were rising, rising, high enough to meet the Hun. Up he goes almost out of sight they follow the fight begins & they gradually work away to the right. 
 Half an hour later the Sentry came back to the officer & saw the guns fired. When laid & trained an officer dashed up out of a dug out spoke to the Sergt Major, the Megaphone rang out. Salvo! Fire! Instantly three guns fired together - Within about 10 seconds up again dashes the officer, again the Sergt Major calls out to the Gun Crews loud enough for all to hear, The best three punishing shots of the day! No 2 Gun to move 1 degree 30 minutes to the left! 
 The Sentry in amasement turned to the Officer, smilingly he said see that letter, the Sentry saw a large letter L formed by means of long strips of Calico, that means we are L Battery, See that aeroplane in the distance, that's L Battery's aeroplane Scout, reconnaissane, & fire director. 
 This aeroplane was one of 30 or 40 within sight. As soon as the officer in the aeroplane saw where the shells struck he sent a wireless to the officer in charge of the Battery who in less that half a minute after the Salvo had been fired was able to inform the Gun Crews of the result. The Aeroplane can send but not receive messages. 
 The Sentry watched the Battery "putting" in good work for some little time, & when leaving thanked the Officer for his kindness. Passing three "Tommies" on the road, they saluted the Sentry! & being curious he asked them why they saluted him. 
  We  always salute officers! Sir! Why said the Sentry I'm only a private! The "Tommies" opened their eyes wide, for having been in long convesation with the British officer they concluded the Sentry must be an officer, & then they marvelled that a private should have the audacity to talk to an officer, just like a friend. The Sentry enjoyed their wonder immensely. 
