<p class="page" id="a6623008">[Page 8]</p>
<p>sheering off and to hastily throw on board some fruit etc and to catch the "goodbye" ribbons which were unfortunately broken all too soon. We were towed slowly out into the harbour followed by numerous motorboats with friends on board where we lay to as is the custom till noon. All this time the motorboats were fussing round and people passing in all manner of eatables and also a little "drinkables" to cheer the hearts of those who found a joy therein. We had a second breakfast on board at 9 A.M. which was somewhat scrambled as things were not quite in working order but nevertheless the meals provided are excellent partly owing I believe to the Board of Trade regulations. The mess room where we also have all our meals and wherein we sleep is provided with tables some seating 22 others 16 and are very comfortable and good knives forks plates etc are provided. This meal seemed like dinner to us and when we weighed anchor just after noon it seemed more like about 4 o'clock in the afternoon. We went out with syrens shrieking and getting cheers from each ship we passed and one motorboat speedier and more daring than the rest followed us right outside the heads only giving up when it became too rough to proceed farther. It was a perfect day to set sail but nevertheless when we got outside the heads the boat began pitching rather disconcertingly but we walked about the decks getting our bearings and watching places we knew passing along the South East coast of Sydney. Coogee, Bondi, were picked out &amp; also we could see the White City. The South coast has beautiful beaches nearly all the way along with lighthouses at intervals and in the near distance hills. We passed several boats on the way and my glasses were very useful . Tea at about six and after serving my time as guard over the mess room baggage for the afternoon we were allowed to go to bed. We brought our blankets up on deck as it was a beautiful night and slept well until 6 o'clock the next morning. We have two white blankets each and a hammock which is very comfortable although I prefer to sleep on the deck in the open air if possible at all. A good few of the men were sea sick and couldn't help smiling although it was heartless and my turn is sure to come when we get into the bight. These are our meals. Coffee &amp; toast in the morning for 3d if desired. 8 o'clock breakfast &ndash; Porridge with sugar, stew, bread &amp; butter and cheese and tea with sugar and milk. Dinner a5 12.30 and consists of the following &ndash; soup, meat sometimes boiled sometimes roast with potatoes and vegetables today green peas and pudding 3 times a week.</p>