<p class="page" id="a6623027">[Page 27]</p>
<p>We have our berth at Port Tewfich about 7 yards from it to prevent the ship hurting the wharf which is quite low and of stone masonry. When an officer wishes to move anywhere adjacent to the railway line two natives take him on a four wheeled light car on the railway. One pushing while the other sits behind and each doing shifts. In this way they go for quite 50 miles at a time running along the rails in rope shoes. Some of the natives were about selling various things such as cigarettes Turkish delight etc. Good cigarettes egyptina 50 for 1/- but Turkish delight about 2 inches cube 6d was asked for and like an ass I paid. Only about 12 pieces in the box. But this is the only time I've been taken down. Everyone makes it his own especial business to rook another and I beat them down every time. Tea at 5 and as we thought we would have left the boat before all our rations had been thrown overboard and we only had bread tea without milk or sugar and a short ration of bread. We held an indignation meeting but after going on deck and having a long argument with the officer we got nothing as we had to fall in almost at once so counted him out instead and went down to the mess room and upset everything. A lot of knives forks etc went with us and some overboard. We had been docked 1/- each the previous day to pay breakage expenses but I think we got some of our money back although I didn't partake in any of the foolishness I made a good deal of noise and aimed a lot of bread. Fell in at about six P.M. and after getting all our things in order we went into the train &ndash; and such a train. We were crammed into an open coal truck of iron with low sides and only our kits and a few bales of blankets which only took up room &ndash; to lie on. However, I enjoyed the first part as I made myself fairly comfortable reclining and watched the scenery. We backed into the main Suez station for water and then set out. There are numerous guard bivouacs all along the line and quite an encampment at Suez oil tanks (Petroleum). the houses are some of them very good of 4 or 5 stories with flat roofs and apparently comfortable. We passed a mosque with a beautiful ornamental minaret and it looked very good for such. The moon was up all the way and it was cool and altogether not unpleasant. We followed the canal nearly all the way to the Mediterranean and stopped at nearly every station to let other trains pass. Stations all seem to consist of a few tents and perhaps a house or two and all seem to be oases with palm trees and water canals the rest being sandy desert all the way and undulating. The line is raised above the surroundings to guard against sand storms burying it and 4' 8 &frac12; guage and the trains (passenger) travel very fast &ndash; believe doing 87 miles in 2 &frac12; hours with stations included. The canal was quite close and the fresh water canal fed from the Nile runs along the line all the way. Many searchlights are stationed at the canal and were flashing in every direction and</p>