<p class="page" id="a6623030">[Page 30]</p>
<p>was worked by an old cow whose eyes were bandaged and walked around in a circle and when tired was exhorted by a native with a long drawn Ah-h-h The wheel raised water quite 7 feet and was ingenious and well contrived although whether designed by the natives or English is unknown. Barley and all sorts of grass are grown and further back where we are not allowed oranges and other fruit. An Archimedean was also used but this was not on view as it was being used somewhere else. The bazaar had several shops selling lace and silk finery but it was too dear and things are purchased cheaper in Cairo but they were very fascinating all the same and some goods I saw were &pound; 2.5.0 a shawl. On the way I saw Jack Johnson who gave me some of his experiences on the Miltiades which called in at Colombo, Fremantle and also into the land when an auxiliary cruiser of the enemy was about. They caught a monsoon and it was so bad that the wind tore up some of the deckhouses and some of the poor men were caught and killed by being bashed on things. he said it was ghastly with pieces of flesh lying all about the deck. He hasn't been in action yet but has been in several camps. We then walked up to the cemeteries one a comparatively small one yet containing the men who have died here and the other with various trees in it with the men who fell at the battle of Tel-El-Kebir, Cassassin, and Ismailia and in which fought Gordon and Wolsely. The water station is just at the left of the station and has 3 Tangye oil engines of almost 15 horse power each for pumping the water from the artesian bores to the camp and for purifying it. We gave in our requisition for our summer clothing to-day which consist of khaki drill slacks and tunic. No letters turned up yet but I know there is one there written before I left from Melv, but I can't get it although another chap actually saw it there. Going to bed early to-night to make up. prices are very high here and a man has to be continually on the lookout to prevent being rooked. We have a mascot, a donkey bought for 11 &frac12; pt and black about the size of a medium goat.<br/>28.4.16. Fell in at 6 this morning and went for a long march until 8 o'clock round the East end of the camp which produced a good appetite for breakfast. We bought two little cucumbers for &frac12; a piastre or 1 [indecipherable] and they were very sweet. We were told to fall in at 9 but didn't do so until 10.15 and then</p>