<p class="page" id="a6623039">[Page 39]</p>
<p>went for a further stroll. First though we tested the French vintage and found it excellent but of course only took a little. Some of our men were making free with the beer and there were several arguments in the streets but we steered clear and met some girls whom we spoke with for about an hour. very decent although they couldn't speak English &amp; I had to act as interpreter. One was in a sort of Girl Guide uniform  and we left them about 11 for home. On the way we met some officers patrols who instructed us to proceed at once to camp but some other men in the ranks came along and we were supposed to escort them home. However, we dodged that and walked home about 4 &frac12; miles at a good pace knowing we would be "done" if we stopped and walked through the gates at a quarter to one. No one apparently being about and went to bed dead tired.<br/>18.5.16 Some of the early home men last night got up at 4 when it was light boiled some tea &amp; when we got up we had it and soon after the Reveille went "at the double". We were all soon ready. Left all our kits to be carried by the transport &amp; left camp about 8.30 picking up on our way two of our men who had had a night out in town. Boarded the train about 9.15 and in the interval before we started our journey (10.25) I hopped down to the barricade and <strike>purch</strike> engaged a small boy to run and get some French vintage for the journey. Got a bottle for about a franc and settled down in our carriage. We were <strike>ten</strike> 8 in a carriage third class which normally carried 10 so we had plenty of room. There is only one window (on the door) and the seats are cushioned. First class for the officers which appeared only middling carriages upholstered with lace. The expresses have better carriages generally corridored and go at a fine pace right through from Marseilles to Boulogne and Calais. The engines used &ndash; a number being Belgian ones are very fine and large a notable and ingenious feature being the valve gear and link motions all controlled and worked off the coupling gear by a contrivance (parallel) securing straight line movement for the valve. We followed the coast for some distance and beautiful views were obtainable of the coast and cliffs and town. We passed through two long tunnels the second being quite the longest I have ever thought of. The country soon became very beautiful and Southern France is at its prime at this time of the year. green everywhere contrasted by flowers of every sort and colour. Trees forming beautiful copses of every kind and undergrowth, making the place heavenly and cool streams running through which would make ideal picnic places and camping grounds where one could loaf all day. Hawthorn was just flowering and beautiful scents were occasionally wafted towards us. Our stops were fairly frequent although not too often and our meals were always taken at a station or siding making it all seem like a picnic. This is being written on the 26th &amp; I can't remember all the stations we passed. The wine went well and we had plenty to eat purchasing French bread which was very excellent. I was cramped into a corner for the first part of the night but later another chap sat up and I soon took his place and got some sleep. Next morning we were able to get a good wash with cool water</p>