<p class="page" id="a6623040">[Page 40]</p>
<p>19.5.16. Lyons was passed but I didn't see it and the rest of the day nothing happened that I can remember. We didn't go to sleep until late to-night as we thought we might be getting off. However, went to sleep at last and passed the outskirts of Paris at about 3.30 in the morning waiting about an hour before we could clear our line. I was asleep however. Country still beautiful and always varying  but the south is a long way the best. Some fields have plants thick with crimson flowers, clover yellow and red poppies abound and along the line big white daisies abound.<br/>20.5.16. Several alarms about getting to our destination but still going. Passed Sens a big railway centre with every conceivable type of engine. Later on a flying school with various machines. Two in the air this was in the early morning. last big stop was Amiens and the beautiful fairly like cathedral could just be glimpsed as we were passing out. We had breakfast and some cold coffee brought by English nurses and some convent ladies who gave us each a small souvenir. We arrived at our destination Etaples at 4.30 and soon after getting off moved to the camp where we were at once issued with rifles and soon after arriving about 3 miles to our camp from the station we carried our baggage over and got up our tents and went to bed at about 8.30 at dark. Didn't feel half as fatigued as I expected. Camp is a very large base with about 23,000 men and men go to and from the firing line here to Armentiers about <strike>40</strike> 60 miles away. Very handy to Boulogne and Calais and all sorts of troops are here camped close to the railway line with a little stream running through down to the sea and we get all our water from it. Sandhills nearly surround us and we are limited to the confines of our own camp. Drinking water is filtered from the stream and we bathe and wash our things in the other portions. Clothes are washed by French girls who come round and do it very cheaply. The training camp is in the sandhills and men go down for 6 hours training daily from 8 to 2 and 2 to 8. All sorts of training from practical field gunnery to bomb throwing and the place is well set out. The camp is easily the best I have ever been in.<br/>21.5.16 Woke at 6 and felt refreshed. Aeroplane passed over and gave us a bit of a scare but it was only a French patrol but about a week ago several bombs were dropped by Zeppelins on their way to England. Parades at 6.30 about 10 minutes to hear orders and then from 9 to 12 and then 2 &ndash; 4 except on days when we are in the "Bull-ring or in other words up in the training camp. There s a good Y.M.C.A. and canteen</p>