<p class="page" id="a6623026">[Page 26]</p>
<p>There are many lighthouses on the land round here which is plainly visible on each side and intensely interesting with its beautiful colours but no vegetation whatever. There was a wreck plainly visible probably an Arab Dhow sunk by an auxiliary cruiser one of which we saw lying close to the Turkish shore and probably the Ophir. We passed numerous steamers on the way only one of which I could read the name. The Mansourah. these included two transports one crowded with troops and the other also containing troops and also a lot of red cross nurses. These were probably bound for the Persian Gulf &amp; Mesopotamia. Expect to get into Port at about 5 or 6 in the morning but may not go ashore as there may not be a berth for us until Monday morning.<br/>23.4.16. Dropped anchor at 5.30. Intensely cold all night but getting warm now 8 A.M. Lot of vessels in port some troopships unloaded and some supply ships and <strike>tw</strike> one destroyer another which looks like one also a hospital ship the Nevarra. A supply ship A.57 passed us with sheep on board. Arm of the canal is seen on the right and on the right just at entrance of canal is the berthing accommodation. Straight ahead are two big camps and the town with apparently some fine square buildings and we saw some trains connecting the town with the wharf. On the left are about a dozen of apparently oil tanks. There was an aeroplane making a reconnaissance. She was a Bleriot monoplane by the looks of her. Ready to go ashore as we are all dressed in our uniforms and yet we may have to wait some time. Two launches came alongside. One the native police boat and throwing coins over on to the boat provided an interesting scramble for them. Directly after dinner we had to help in unloading the horses we had charge of and an interesting treat it was. Horses jumping about everywhere especially going down the planks to the shore where we gave them into the hands of natives who entrained them. In the morning two horses got loose and were swimming about in the water about &frac12; an hour before being captured. There were a mob of about 100 natives who moved the gangways and otherwise did the hard work and it was very funny watching. One man appeared to be leader and when all was ready he would chant an exhortation to the men to work and immediately they would reply with a short answering chant showing the while all the time keeping a perfect babble of noise.</p>