<p class="page" id="a6623011">[Page 11]</p>
<p>I have decided to give up smoking for a fortnight and to-day is the first day. It won't hurt me and will show how much of a habit it has grown on me. The canteen opens at regular hours and nearly all our wants are supplied. Some cheaper but drinks are 4d instead of 3d as in Sydney. Tobacco 4 ozs 1/- cigarettes 10 for 9d with matches. I had my hair cut to-day after dinner and am now in thorough working order but I took care first of all that we had passed Adelaide although there was practically no chance whatever of calling. We are going right through to Suez that is if nothing happens but there have been so many horses die that we may put in to Fremantle to exercise the horses a bit and if I get an opportunity will deal with letters. Oh, I hope so. The horses are badly cursed here and there is great excitement when another one dies. Some of the men here swear that if they get off at Fremantle they'll never return to the boat for several reasons that need not be mentioned but things are very unsatisfactory chiefly due I think to the inefficiency of the Officers.<br/>25.3.16 I read quite a lot of the dear old "Sentimental and slept well and although we were pitching a good deal it wasn't rough. I had to attend the first parade and for the rest of the day I was off duty on account of inoculation and did a little reading in the morning and a big sleep and in the afternoon did ditto and passed the evening with a game of bridge and bed at 10 o'clock. During the afternoon it became misty and cloudy and we could see rough weather was approaching and sure enough we got it last night. It rained hard and the night was very black with the sea breaking all over us and we had to have our hatches battened down but water still came in at a defective port hole and we got it bad I can tell you. All night long we rolled and pitched and it has only been slightly better to-day (Sunday). However, I haven't been the least bit seasick but to-day had a rotten headache possibly due to the food I have eaten.</p>