<p class="page" id="a6623037">[Page 37]</p>
<p>to make about a pint of beef tea and also a mixture of tea and sugar sufficient to make a quart of tea. We sighted the coast of France this afternoon and came into harbour at 4.30 where we are awaiting in mid-channel the medical officer. A Frenchman as pilot and when he was going off I bade him Bon Soir and he returned the compliment very volubly and with much waving of arms. The land is very rugged in approach and a lighthouse on the left guides us in. The cliffs on the right are studded with forts and right in the entrance is an island with some heavy forts. On the port entrance is a submarine base and the whole is a naval base although there were only a couple of small T.B.D's visible when we anchored. Right on a high hill is a church and a tower caries a gilded figure of Christ and directly below another imposing looking church. The city looks very beautiful with fine buildings and electric cars run all round the place and railways go away from the city over the hills all being cog railways on account of the height of the hills. The shipping on entering is not visible <strike>but</strike> on account of being hidden behind the wharves and is very extensive when you come into view of it. The city is very beautiful on the West side and beautiful green lawns and tree studded "maisons" run down to the waters edge. We saw some French ladies to-day. First ladies we have seen for a very long time and the look very chic and pretty. A mail boat passed our anchorage going out and she had on board a very miscellaneous assortment of French people clad in all sorts of various gaudy garbs and cheering us all the way. There is a very fine suspension bridge over a branch of the wharves and other bridges turn on their centres allowing boats to pass on each side. There are two boatloads of troops just near us each waiting to be unloaded I suppose. An Italian transport was torpedoed yesterday in the Adriatic and at first we thought it was our sister ship the "Scotian". We shall have an excellent opportunity for viewing the country to-morrow if we travel in the day time but it is a very long journey and hope it won't be hot.</p>