<p class="page" id="a6623042">[Page 42]</p>
<p>Took a fatigue party to clean canteens and saw a French aeroplane making a reconnaissance which passed back over the camp. Rest of the morning we did nothing. In the afternoon we fell in at 3 instead of 2 and carried some boards down to the Q.M.S store for our tents. Changed tents again. The airship passed over this morning but a long way off. This afternoon 4 French biplanes flew about the camp and returned towards the firing line. No pay yet and I havent a cent in the world. 5 francs borrowed from Ludlow have gone but we are to be paid to-morrow for certain &ndash; so they say. Bed early feeling fatigued<br/>27.5.16 Bull ring at 8 to 2 and as we heard no bugle some of us had our names taken. Ordinary aeroplane and airship patrol to-day and in addition 5 biplanes were circling near here nearly all the afternoon. Bull ring. 1st Gas helmet lecture and trial. Bad lecturer. Practice made it seem very difficult to wear them but it gets easier they say. Next. Blowed if we weren't all taken out and given saluting by numbers! Talk about being disgusted. N.C.O's were supposed to parade for separate instruction but our beasts of N.C.O's "forgot" to call us out &amp; we had to suffer with the rest. Next. Instruction in grenades which we had done twice previously. The bayonet fighting fair. Afternoon attended to some mending and got back my washing very well done for 1f 20c or 2d per piece. Rotten headache in the evening so went early to bed probably due to touch of the sun.<br/>28.5.16 First parade this morning N.C.O's were called out and dismissed and the men asked concerning their opinions of the N.C.O's. However, only two were spoken of with heat and I wasn't one of them. Church parade at 9.30 and I had to march the Engineers to the parade ground. Australian parson bit flowery although not bad service. Had to take a guard for quarter-master and after dinner had a bath and cigar. Wrote postcards to catch the mail and finished sewing on buttons. Got two extra blankets and &frac14; lb of dates and an issue of tobacco 2 ozs "Royal Seal" or 3 &frac12; boxes of "Three Witches". Airship patrol passed quite low over Etaples to-day after dinner.<br/>29.5.16 Airship patrol again. An airship passes regularly everyday but of course the airships aren't the same every day. Won't mention again unless unusual. French class starts to-morrow evening by a parson who has lived 40 years here. Borrowed a military engineering Pt 3 (bridging) from a chap in our tent. Bull ring at 8. First operation bayonet fighting. Fair. Then company drill by a captain who evidently thought we had never drilled before. Me platoon commander as I couldn't join N.C.O's class as there were too many applicants. The rapid loading dummy bullets. 15 to 30 seconds. Then extended order drill. I had a section, dirty work lying on ones stomach every 10 yards for about 100 yds or more. Cleaned rifle this afternoon for 1st time. Troops being rapidly led to firing line trains going up every hour. Very much traffic on this line and about 22000 men in camp here.</p>