<p class="page" id="a6623046">[Page 46]</p>
<p>10.6.16 I went to bed at once and got to sleep soon after as some of the beggars would insist on talking and didn't wake up till I heard reveille which I took to be the ordinary one at 5.30 but I was soon disillusioned and got straight out of bed not having undressed and got some tea. Nothing seemed to be doing so I put my kit straight and returned my extra mess tin and my spare boots and then wandered round. Suddenly we were told to fall in and somebody discovered we were 15 minutes late and we discovered the quarter master had gas helmets so we all broke off and got some and fell in again. We than marched of carrying all our paraphernalia &ndash; two kit bags overcoat and gear about 2 miles to the railway siding and got into covered trucks pretty full nobody to see us off except the sergeant McClean who carried our rations for us. We weren't the last to arrive although we were late and we moved out at 5.30 accompanied by Auld Lang Syne from the band. The country we passed was hilly although well wooded and grassy and rabbits were plentiful and also wildfowl in a sort of a lake. We passed on the outskirts of Boulogne and saw the open channel. Then on to Calais again passing on the outskirts at the outer station. Two long tunnels were passed through. St Omer is a big town and also Hazebrouck where we were able to get some buns &ndash; our first meal for the day. We had plenty of stuff on board but no one worried to give it out until we went up ourselves and got what we wanted. Straight on to Steeneverck where we got out. We could easily hear the guns about 8 miles and some sounded pretty big. We arrived at 10 o'clock and marched off through winding roads towards Sailly where we were billeted for the night. We stopped half-way and could see a captive balloon of ours taking observations not far off. off again and into a paddock where we stayed and grabbed a biscuit or two and relieved our feet and especially my blisters which were rather sore. Then the trouble started. We were called out  and gently told we were to be Pioneers! This hurt and we've been cursing ever since. It is only a sort of second class engineers and I was unlucky in getting with them while other men <strike>who</strike> about 15 were chosen to go to their company. I'll do my best to get back though. Our billet was a sort of a brickworks and contains several circular saws traction engines and motors. The house is a fairly dilapidated affair and here the officers were billeted our home being in a sort of stable with a loft and straw to sleep on and we had no blankets. I did a bit of interpreting for the officer re more billets for the men and then boiled our billies and made some tea and had bully, biscuits and cheese. Went to bed and slept well although it was cold and raining a bit and got up at 6.<br/>11.6.16 Went straight out and had a gas lecture in a tumble down <strike>pictu</strike> converted picture theatre and then marched off again to undergo a practical test</p>