<p class="page" id="a6623028">[Page 28]</p>
<p>searching the desert and also every ship that went through carried one. The only other place of interest which we passed after striking west a little before the end of the camp was Ismalia where a big camp is quartered and is a fair sized town as well and where we can spend our week-end leave. In the evening before leaving Suez a hydroplane (Biplane) flew over the town to reconnoitre. it is 56 miles to Tel-El-Kebir and we were travelling from 7 to 2.30 A.M. 7 &frac12; hours! it became intensely cold before 12 and blankets were got out but I didn't get one and to double up and after taking off my boots rest as well as I could. We arrived at 2.30 and after  a lot of fuss the rest left at 3.30 and left us to guard the tents and baggage and my feelings can be imagined. The station is fairly bug and although the place appears small (town) there is I think a native town across the canal where there is a pretty green looking irrigation area watered by the Nile canal and with date and oranges. There is a bazaar and interesting things can be bartered for although one must be very careful and we are forbidden to go beyond the railway station on account of the liability to disease but we bought one tin of pineapple which however tasted rotten and cost 3 piastres (P.T) (7 1/2 ) and is about &frac12; size our tins.<br/>24.4.16 Ten men were left on guard and after gathering the baggage together and having an interesting talk with a native who was well read but hasn't been beyond Egypt we decided to do &frac12; an hours watch each &amp; rest the remainder. I went on at 4 and at 4.30 being dead tired and very cold went to sleep until 6. The nights are very cold and the days hot although not unbearably hot yet natives flocked round us and sold oranges and buns but I thought it inadvisable to buy any. Oranges 3 for two piastres (5d) and fairly small but they eventually came down to 3 for 1 or 2 &frac12;d. Paper [indecipherable] pages very little news &frac12; P.T (1 &frac14;d). The canal is used by the natives for washing themselves in and drinking and for barges although only about 30 feet across for carrying stone timber etc about and are rigged with very long bamboo masts and sails. Donkeys are largely used and the tiny little beggars sometimes carry along two hefty men at a time and always walk. also we saw a few camels used to carry stores etc to the camp. Natives can be hired cheaply to do ones business such as carrying or anything else and can always be found in the camp although they are always passed in after being examined and have a badge. They have taken as a whole a very low and disgusting code of morals and I hate the whole business. We were very tired and felt disgustingly dirty when we woke up in the morning and only at 3 o'clock did some men come down from the camp for the bully beef and biscuits and left us some. It was good corned beef and the biscuits weren't bad and we have still a stock on hand which I keep for emergency.</p>