<p class="page" id="a6623059">[Page 59]</p>
<p>and got a fine view of the surrounding country. Ypres being plainly visible by the salient at night time when a bombardment is on. Sailly could also be seen through the glasses. We broke off for half an hour at 10.30 and had a stroll round. Beautiful hop country and big windmills are abundant. Close by is a big monastery now used by the Canadians as a hospital and we saw some of the monks coming in from hay-making. Further on was a little inn right at the top evidently frequented by tourists in the season. Good beer and I purchased some french stamps. We were explained our position at the summit and left at 11.15 and got home at 5 to 12. Fell in again at 2 and I found a stiff neck from somewhere. Given a short lecture on our duties in an advance such as mined road, obstacles, and broken bridge and water supply. Broke off at 3 o'clock and a party of us with an N.C.O. went away for a walk. First we went to Berthen about a mile away, a small town and after having a look round bought some chocolates, biscuits and a looking glass. We all lost one another and I was left with Linton and after waiting a bit we hopped on a passing lorry and wanted to get to Bailleul about 10 miles away. However, the lorry only went as far as Meteren about a mile away from it, but we had a good look round as it was a fairly large town. We went into various shops and I got a soap box of aluminium (the other had been nicked) and a silvered steel mirror. We couldn't find a lorry on our way home and had to walk but we took a short cut and got home much earlier. A couple of chaps wanted to go into Berthen so I piloted them and got some ink and some English Stout and another look round. Got back about 7. No tea didn't require any. Sold my other tunic last night to Sergeant Jenneson for 30 francs. My bed taken out to-night the waggon so am sleeping on the flor with some straw. We are to leave to-morrow for the train probably to the Somme at Ooderschoote or something at 12.30. Must write my diary in a note book in future I think as I can't always cart this with me.<br/>11.7.16 Fell in at usual parades this morning and at 9 full marching order as we found we were to leave to catch the train at 2. We waited about and played bridge till 11 o'clock diner when No 3 section and the drivers got under way at 12 o'clock for the train. We started at 2 o'clock and marched by way of Mont des Cats to Godewaersvelde and after waiting about &frac12; an hour we entrained. meanwhile our properties had been loaded on . Rumour was rife as to whether we were going to Ypres or in the West direction to "anywhere". However we moved off to anywhere at 3.45. A guard had been fixed to prevent anyone from leaving the train en route. We were placed in 3rd class carriages 7 to each compt &amp; were fairly comfortable</p>