<p class="page" id="a6623084">[Page 84]</p>
<p>both sides of the main street and in parts a shell hole occurs but generally speaking the town is hardly touched. What struck me most was perhaps the people themselves. There appeared to be an inordinate number of men of military age about. most people could talk quite good English and a good few french but their own language is too like german and I can't get on with them at all. The girls and women are not nearly so nice as the French and one fat old dame on being asked a question assented volubly with Yah Yah. We heard numerous stories of spies and some civilians have been shot for giving information and now even a lot of spying goes on although the authorities are pretty strict. It is said that when first the soldiers came here they were quite openly laughed at and ridiculed. It appears we are to relieve the Canadians from this front and may be here for some time. We got home just before dark taking a short cut through the fields and about 1 mile from Poperinghe and went to bed early.<br/>28.8.16 Reveille at 6.30 and folded our blankets half expecting to move out but didn't. Drill order at 9 o'clock and went for a short march arriving home at 11 and after dinner had a short hand of bridge. 2 0'clock marching order inspection of requisition lists and dismissed at 3. Mail in letter from Jack and parcel from Auntie Sarah. Yesterday sent Melva 2 scent bottles and rosary. We had just started a game of bridge when the order to move at 6 o'clock came but we had plenty of time and soon had things ready and started after tea marching towards the firing line and stopping about a mile behind the firing line observation balloons. Whispers were abroad that we were to take over a yard belonging to the Canadians and such proved to be the case although at first we thought we might have to move to a dump further up but now we seem to be well established. The yard is a beauty and contains 2 motors, a steam engine, baths and bonny little huts and I was lucky in obtaining  a fine bed. Electric lights are in the huts and heaters and we feel very happy. Turned in after dark and had a very comfortable sleep.<br/>29.8.16 Reveille at 6.30 check parade at 7. Fell in again at 9 and we were detailed to our various jobs in the yard. I was called out as engineer but for some reason I was after sent back and after unloading our pontoons we put up an incinerator. It appears we are firmly established and whisper has it we are here for the winter. A consignment of comforts came to us to-day from Tasmania including tobacco, cake, milk, books, and various other things. Got a letter from Burdett. We have a fine mess room and expect to be in occupation to-morrow. It rained occasionally during the afternoon and prevented us from finishing our incinerator. played bridge all the evening until 8 and had a couple of beers before bed. Couldn't sleep until about 11 when a gas alarm occurred. We kept awake and had a confirmation order in &frac12; an hour. However, none came over and it seemed to windy and raining. it rained all night.<br/>30.8.16 Still raining this morning and no parades in the morning although we are supposed to be</p>