<p class="page" id="a6623073">[Page 73]</p>
<p>file out and I at last escaped by one door and Tonkin the other who was accosted by an ancient lady and sprinkled with holy water. There were a fair number of French soldiers present apparently home on leave but it struck me that their presence was not noticed as much as I should have thought. On our way back we got some stout which was fair but 3d for a wineglass ful. Went to sleep after dinner until tea time while MacNamara did more penance in washing carts for being late in joining the company on their march yesterday. 10 minute parade at 2 o'clock when we were warned not to leave the grounds till further notice. Passed evening filling this up.<br/>7.8.16 Slept well but pretty cold. First parade the rest went for a short march while I stayed in on account of bad boots. 2 o'clock parade we had an hours drill and then dismissed. 2 o'clock men were told for duties and the rest dismissed. Spent leisure in cleaning bike and reading and keeping my things in order. Didn't move to-day although warned to be ready and not to leave the camp. MacNamara and Tonkin gone into town to get some bread and other edibles. I have decided to abandon my souvenir helmet as it is only an encumberance and it might not be appreciated by either home people or myself when I return. The bullet entered from the bottom being deflected upwards a large amount as it did so and travelled about 2 inches inside and made a big jagged exit 2 inches long by &frac34; of an inch widest part and of this form again being deflected. [Transcriber's note: Hand drawn sketch shows the shape of the bullet hole in the helmet.<br/>8.8.16 Didn't attend first parade on account of boots. Spent the morning cleaning my bicycle and in the afternoon had a heated and long argument with Tonkin on various subjects and in the intervals wrote to Melv, and later on in the evening to Mum. No rumour of going out yet at all. Just got into bed when I was told I was in bridge picket for an hour sometime during the night and on drawing for times found I was on from 2-3 in the morning.<br/>9.8.16 The hour soon passed and I had a cigarette and a talk with the driver on horse picket. Was exempt from first parade and after Mac brought our breakfast we were told at 8 A.M. parade that dinner would be at 10.30 and move out shortly afterwards. Got all our things together and had a dip in the creek and changed into my new shirt and underpants and after dinner we set out on our march and had our packs carried and I had a bike. Very stiff march up a steep hill with no spell and as it was pretty warm we sweated "some". Got to Bonneville at 1.15 where we heard we were going and into No 55 billet which is not too good and I quickly found a place outside</p>