<p class="page" id="a6623072">[Page 72]</p>
<p>6.8.16 Intensely cold last night and slept fitfully and didn't wake this morning till MacNamara called me to tell me they were all falling in. Got quite a scare and jumped up, slammed on my boots and hopped out in my overcoat just as I was and luckily wasn't spotted although it was supposed to be a dress parade. Tonkin was more unfortunate as he was quite undressed and as a punishment he with two others were sent to wash down our carts until breakfast time. First parade as usual. 8 A.M. Fell in and rumoured we were not to move to-day after all. Had an hours drill under the new N.C.O's and anyone who wanted to try their skill &ndash; very feeble indeed. Then dismissed. Heard the church bell ringing so determined to go to church and hurried off arriving at 11.15 but we weren't the latest as people came in long after us an there weren't many there. Very unique experience. No music but the priest chanted and was answered by a stentorian voiced bewhiskered gentleman who sat behind. Another extraordinary personage was a gentleman dressed gorgeously in what appeared to be admirals clothes and who with a staff and a sheathed rapier apparently acted as usher and guardian of proceedings. The congregation joined softly sometimes in the chants but usually didn't seem to worry themselves much about the proceedings an occasional sign of the cross following the example of the priest was all the ceremony used and no incense whatever. Service in french wholly and I could only just pick out an intercession for certain 'Monsieurs' and Madams and a reference to the Australians as the talls was far too fast but I heard several Amens at perhaps, predetermined places. An interesting &amp; amusing episode was a sort of clacker used sounding like a rod banged on the floor at which signal the white robed red capped choir boys or attendants would stand up or kneel according to their previous position. Another feature was <strike>the</strike> introduced through a long prayer or exhortation or something when a hand bell was rung violently quite a number of times the prayer proceeding as if nothing unusual were happening. A strange thing now took place and a basket of bread was passed round to everybody pieces about 2" square being used and children and everybody partaking with evident relish. However, no wine put in an appearance. By this time I felt rather flabbergasted especially as a fair demoiselle attended by the admiral and two choir boys after sundry bows in every direction at the alter approached the congregation with an alms plate. I left all my money home but Tonkin luckily had a &frac12; franc piece which saved the situation. However, only pennies were offered and not many people gave them. A hymn chant now took place and people began to</p>