<p class="page" id="a6623068">[Page 68]</p>
<p>25.7.16 Got up late and breakfast at 10 A.M. and cleaned our rifles and selves and got ready for emergencies again. Dinner 12-1 and afternoon spent resting. After tea were ordered to return to line which we did in our pontoon wagons arriving about 10 P.M. at Gordons Dump via Sausage Gully. We recommenced our dugout and got it fairly respectable in an old shell hole and slept for a while during the morning although the battery in the gully made a big din. Part of the company worked that night but we slept.<br/>26.7.16 Stood to at 4 A.M. for gas shells. Got our dry rations and McNamara had a look at the old german dugouts after finishing our dugout while I slept as I had awoke early owing to our [indecipherable] condition. Had another sleep that morning and forgot about dinner. A premature burst of a shell just after leaving the muzzle caused some casualties among our men and there was a continued stream of our wounded coming in and one chap had a captured german machine gun which upon inspection seemed very excellent. Early tea at 4.30 and secured pick and shovel and 10 sandbags each. Whole company went out at 5.15 and up towards the first line where we waited for orders in a chalk quarry on a gentle slope which I knew wasn't shrapnel proof and her we got bombarded with gas shells. Whizz bangs, shrapnel and high explosive. Shrapnel bullets and bits of shell whistled quite close to us and things weren't pleasant as my nerves were giving way a bit but not seriously. our trenches in which we were to work were evidently too heavily shelled for work to be possible. An infantryman was hit in the arm by shrapnel. One of our working party but tool it very gamely and Dave Oliver while trying to get him to the dugout shelter was hit a bullet passing right through his thigh. Soon after we got the order to retire and arrived at our dugout at 2.30 and went straight to bed. We dumped our tools in the gully at the chalk pit and got additional sand bags to keep us warm as I didn't take a great coat and slept till 4 A.M.<br/>27.7.16 We received 3 issues of rum altogether which we greatly appreciated as it tuned our nerves up a lot. Just opposite us were 4 travelling kitchens. We were awakened at 4 A.M. and told to be ready to go on pontoons at once and go home much to our relief and joy and left at 5.30 arriving about 6.30 thoroughly done up. We had a good wash and meal and clean up and after dinner went down to Albert on the bikes and got some chocolate and fruit. Several aeroplane duels and 4 caterpillar tractors hauling emplacements for heavy guns. very interesting. The the first engagement just at the back of us was one of our aeroplanes which had been brought down and there was great activity of our planes all the time and we seemed to have complete control of the air. Had fruit for tea and after getting everything in order went to bed in a shelter of hessian just room enough for us three.<br/>28.7.16 Reveille at 6 A.M. and during the morning our kits were packed and the wagons made ready. I got a web equipment which was not in use as the owner had been wounded and went to the village on our bikes for post cards</p>