<p class="page" id="a6623082">[Page 82]</p>
<p>Went to our wagons before tea and got my pack and had a brief look round before tea. After tea went for a "promenade" our chief object being to get a bath. The town is quite big and has some fine dwelling houses &ndash; the chief item of interest being the church which is almost a cathedral. Built in 1888 it looks very fine and modern with a wide flight of stairs up to the 2 entrances and also has a clock tower. Inside there are three altars all very beautiful and candles of electric light. The whole town being supplied with electric light. A beautiful pipe organ is in a gallery in the rear and the whole is very fine. The main street contains numerous goods shops but I was unable to buy a torch which I wanted mostly. We heard we could get a warm bath at the hospital so after coming back and getting our bikes we took our underclothing down. The hospital (privates) is on the outskirts on the main road and is run by R.A.M.C. men and kept very clean and pretty. Clearing hospital and all sorts are there. After a bit of a blarney we got a warm bath and felt very fine afterwards making a great improvement. It was after nine when we got back  and getting our blankets "dossed" in the yard in the open air in preference to inside in the dirty bunks. Didn't sleep too well as we were doubtless overtired. Got some bonny cider before tea last night 7 &frac12; d a bottle.<br/>25.8.16 Reveille at 6.30 and roll-call at 7. Wrote some of this after breakfast and at 9 fell in in marching order and went out towards our carts where we mobilised in a paddock and had orders read to us in which Major J. Savage   <u>D.S.O</u> gave orders for our benefit &ndash; or otherwise &ndash; The .S.O. was given for the work <u>we</u> carried out at Pozieres. We then marched on to a little track along which blackberries grew past a pumping station to a very beautiful wood its only fault being that the undergrowth was a bit damp. Returned to our billets at 11.10 and our orders were that no one was to leave his billets without a pass. We have 10 to 1 to-morrow in which to entrain and have got to leave fairly early I s'pose to get to Doullens in time. Spent the time before dinner completing this record. Fell in again at 2 o'clock with our respirators and had them "inspected". MacNamara being gas expert. This was out of the town near the pumping tanks. Got back about 3.30 and the rest of the afternoon was spent in getting ready and other details. I went early to bed after tea and although I couldn't sleep until late had a good rest.<br/>26.8.16 In the morning preparations for departure did not seem very much troubled about which rather surprised us, considering our march and early departure. However, we cleaned up our billets and after getting everything ready were told we would move out at 9. I carried some gear down to our carts about a mile away and on returning we had some cider supplied by Kernot to all the section in honour of his recent appointment to sergeant. Fell in and marched towards Doullens at 9.15. it was only about 7 kilometres there up and down hill all the way and we struck a bit of a shower of rain. Doullens is low down in a valley and we halted for a while and our transport went on. Arrived about 11 and quickly go the train loaded and found our seats another heavy shower disturbing us. At 11.30 we were dismissed and told we could have an hour in the town as the train didn't start till 1.30. So Tonkin and I set off in great spirits towards the main</p>