<p class="page" id="a6623063">[Page 63]</p>
<p>figure of the virgin mary hanging at right angles being knocked thus by a shell. Every thing is deserted and some places badly knocked about. We went for a wash as soon as we got in and it was near a horse trough. Had a fine refreshing wash. The water is brought in pipes from a long way away. Just as we  had finished our feet shells began to lob about 400 yds from us so when we were ready we went back and had a view from a vantage point about 500 yds away. However, no damage was done and they couldn't find the 12" gun. We went to bed soon after as it was just getting dark and dew was falling heavily so we "borrowed" some hay from a stack and put our ground sheets over and slept in our overcoats with blankets over us and our feet in them over the whole of which we pulled on sandbags. I wore my waterproof cap cover against the dew and slept very comfortably and well although when we woke up our blankets were sopping. The river Ancre flows through Albert but is only about 12' wide although pretty deep.<br/>20.7.16 Thursday. Had a parade at 6.30 for checking and got mobile after breakfast and up to dinner time have been enjoying a sun bath. The 1st  Fd Coy is just by us and I saw Hodgson and Gould. Hodgson has had only one letter since he left Egypt but from all accounts the 1st company is much better than the 3rd. Still waiting and don't know anything of what is going to happen. Just opposite us is our old reserves and the germans were bombarding furiously just over the hill nearly all the morning. On the afternoon we took a stroll towards Albert but didn't go far in as we might have moved anytime. On our return we volunteered to go to the R.E. yards on a couple of limbers towards the centre of the town for 200 shovels and 100 picks. Tonkin and Pope went with me. The town was almost deserted and only a few soldiers were billeted there and one or two civilians who had the courage to remain and keep a little shop. At first sight from the hill overlooking Albert the town does not appear large but on closer inspection it has or had a beautiful cathedral, at least one large school and the shops quite numerous and fairly fig [big]. It is a railway station although of course no trains ran so far and connects direct with Amiens and a branch line to Peronne. There are numerous fairly fine houses and also engineering shops, flour mills and gas plants. The church Notre Dame de Brebieres is almost a total wreck and I secured some post cards of it later. There is a public square and a statute of war and it is requested not to loiter there as the enemy could at one time anyway see right into the town. We got our load and arrived back about 6.15 not having procured much tea and on our arrival were told at once to get into fighting order and secure all the rations we could and especially see to a full water bottle. Later Higginbottom told us our work would be digging fire steps in the front trench recently captured. During the afternoon wee learnt that Sergeant <strike>Mueller</strike> Cohen of 3rd section and Corporal Allingham of No 4 had been sniped and both killed while they had gone up to the front to ascertain the lie of the land and our work for that night</p>