<p class="page" id="a6623064">[Page 64]</p>
<p>They were both well liked and cast a gloom over us. Later on we found the snipers nest which was an old shell hole out in the open and enfilading our lines. We were soon ready and started on our long march up to the front over hilly ground. Just outside Albert were our old original trenches dug in the chalky limestone and on our way we passed  guns, guns, all along most of them firing and all shapes and sizes. A tramway of perhaps 2 feet runs nearly right  up and a railway is being laid and a road once only a track is being made with new metal and parts of the way over the old trenches with fascines. We soon came into the war zone and here all was chaos and destruction. We passed through a wood still fairly preserved and I think Mametz and it was all interlaced with trenches and barbed wire entanglements and in it was an old Chateau now used as a dressing station and stop for ambulances. We now came to the first original line where our advance began and here there was  terrible confusion with all the wire cut by high explosive shells and the trenches well they were hardly recognisable and shell holes everywhere not more than 3 feet apart and overlapping frequently. Equipment was strewn about although not very much and some of it was german and I saw several abandoned machine gun belts. A hedge behind which was a bank gave us shelter and we stayed a short time. The german bombardment was heavy all this time and at one corner we had to wait as the shells were falling just ahead of us at the corner where was one of  our batteries. here we got a pick and shovel each after much confusion as the battery just behind us was being shelled &amp; also tear and gas shells were being used lavishly and Lt Higginbottom was quite evidently ins "blue funk". We now proceeded after some more confusion in parties quite in the open although it was dark much to my wonder and after getting lost several times followed Corporal Kernot attended by Tonkin whom I soon lost after several reunions. In the end I lost Kernot before finally getting to work. Bullets seemed to be humming round too frequently to mu liking for the adventure to be safe and flares were up making us quite visible I should think. At the foot of a hill we laid down flat for a while guarding our faces with our shovels as there appeared to be a stunt on. We proceeded still further after sundry times losing each other and in the end hopped down into our trenches and observed where we were. There appeared to be German trenches in front and on our right able to enfilade us and the unknown position of the german front line was about 800 yards in front of us. I worked with Daly as the others seemed lost and Jock McHugh on our left in the same bay and this line was held by the 11th Battalion with the Scots Black Watch on our right &amp; Tommies on our left. Hard work digging but I felt very fit and got some useful work done although Daly didn't appear to want to exert himself and complained of his bunioned foot. Our position was just behind a German limber which had been capsized and the three horses killed and just beginning to make their presence noticeable.<br/>21.7.16 At 2 A.M. everybody had to stand to with loaded rifle and bayonet fixed as the Germans might attack</p>