<p class="page" id="a6623066">[Page 66]</p>
<p>23.7.16 The german flares were particularly prevalent as if they feared something was going to happen. Long lines of ghostly looking men with fixed bayonets could be seen advancing in the gloom everywhere only to hurriedly lie flat when a star shell lit up the place. Past us they came and over our trench and on as near the german line as they dared and then our artillery commenced the 15 minute bombardment. The hail of shell sent over was terrific and it is said that 800 batteries were concentrated on the front we were to take. of course the shells were directed on the enemy trenches to be taken and they immediately saw an attack was in progress and started bombarding all the ground and trenches where we were likely to be bringing up troops. God it was awful. Myriads of shells fell on our trench in front of the parapet behind on the parados and all round us and we had to just sit still and either wait to be killed or let live according to chance or providence. The bursting of the shells nearly deafened us and the horrible acid smell nauseated us. MacNamara Tonkin and I kept together and we had this treatment sold for over an hour. Just previous to this german machine guns were clack clacking hesitatingly and uncertainly for a while as if they knew something was on foot but couldn't quite determine our intentions and then they began in earnest without cessation as men made themselves shown more. The bombardment  still continued and then began to slacken very gradually and Mr Dowling went out with a white tape to mark the trench we were to make. Soon after this we all crowded to the exit and made off in single file in the direction of our work and soon found a space where Tonkin and I got in and quickly throwing off our equipment began work at once throwing the dirt on our right facing the enemy. Shell was still intense and rifle bullets and machine gun bullets were whistling round us but very few shells. The worst being right on our left about 300 yards away. Worked hard for some time to gain cover for ourselves and it was hard going and soon after we started men from the fighting in the advance began to come back wounded, some crawling, some hardly able to move and others with ghastly faces all imploring us as to how far the communications trench was further on. The German line was in this shape and our communication trench is dotted and our original line shown broken. This only approximate and shows how the german line marked X had to retire or be cut off but it didn't do this until very late and it was from here that all our casualties were got. The must have moved out into the open and quite close to us and sniped and use M.G. plentifully when their flares disclosed our working party.</p>