<p class="page" id="a6623096">[Page 96]</p>
<p>5.11.16 Usual work. Sharp bombardment this morning just after we got out and probably an attack by us. Guns all round us. Later another one on our right and both very severe. I saw a part of it through glasses. Fritz artillery very active all day and shells falling all round us. I saw one casualty but mostly he was feeling for the guns all round. Knocked off at 2.30 and on the way home watched an 8" howitzer firing. Intensely interesting and one could watch the shell away into the distance rapidly getting smaller and smaller till it vanished into the clouds or grew too small. Jumped in an ammunition wagon coming home and got well shaken up. A big shell had come over and on the road near B.H.Q. and got a motor lorry and killed about 20 men. Awful mess. Got my kit bag and got all the articles I wanted and will dump the rest. Rum issue to-night and I had a drop too much. However, went to bed and slept it off.<br/>6.11.16 Staying home to-day to get my boots mended and am cleaning up our dugout and clothes. Cleaned everything except my overcoat which is too bad to tackle and didn't finish until 2 or 3 and then some of my clothes were wet which I put on. Rather silly thing to do. In the evening I felt pretty unwell as if a bad cold were coming but nothing happened. Numerous machine guns going quite close in the night and also searchlights and I believe a Taube was over. Very strong S.W. wind all day and fairly cold.<br/>7.11.16 Tuesday. Boots still unmended so stayed home again and started raining and rained all day. I dried my boots by Ludlow's fire and they are repaired by now. Sappers returned at 11 and we all were miserable all day. A bit alarmed and thought it might be our turn for the trenches as the 3rd Brigade is in I believe but nothing has happened yet. 5.15. Bombardment going on up the front and it must be awful there. Feel happier now our roof is partially mended but everything is dismal and muddy. Spent the evening reading french and talking with Bill Ingram as we had a new supply of candles in 9.30. Gas guard 11-12.<br/>8.11.16 Usual routine on the hopeless roads. Hun artillery increasingly active and he has better ideas of our positions of guns. Saw Jenkins just going in. On the way home dallied watching the big howitzers and then caught a motor lorry and were very interested in the A.A. guns firing. Then walked the rest of the way and inspected a caterpillar tractor. Got to bed early as usual and was reading french when a Taube came over flying quite low at 8.15. Using his machine gun and dropping bombs. Passed just over the back of us dropping a bomb which injured some horses and flew off over the South side of the salient having come from the north and greeted by a volley of rifle &amp; machine gun bullets passing the line. He was the followed by a searchlight and two stray shrapnel but was quickly lost. Fine day and sun came out in the afternoon.<br/>9.11.16 Perfect sunny day and lovely full moon to-night. Numerous air combats but we didn't show to</p>