<p class="page" id="a5657010">[Page 10]</p>
<p>(4)<br/>November.  As my brother was sailing on 16th November I applied to get away on the same transport and was successful.  He was attached to the reinforcements of the 41st Battalion.  Next day I was appointed to the 5th Reinforcements of the 42nd Battalion (No. 2642 of "C" Company) and we were very busy getting ready for embarkation.  Were reviewed by the Governor of Queensland (Sir Goold Adams) and that night we all had our last night in Brisbane.</p>
<p>On Troopship</p>
<p>On 16th November 1916 we were up early and with our packs, marched to Rifle Range Station, amidst the cheers of the men in camp, and entrained for Pinkemba &ndash; 14 miles away.  Our transport was awaiting us which we boarded immediately and sailed away.  It was a memorable sight.  The steamer was crowded with soldiers, who were up the rigging and everywhere.  The wharf was packed with relatives and friends and various coloured paper streamers were thrown over to us.  The band was playing and the steamers close by sounded their sirens.  We then sailed down Moreton Bay and entered the ocean.  Our troopship was the "Kyarra" (7,000 tons) an old but good seaboat.  There were 961 troops and seven nurses aboard.  Some of the men had never been to sea before and got very sick but I was a good sailor and never got sick.  We were shewn our quarters (each company drew lots for positions on the steamer) and our company was lucky to draw the best deck, which was "A" deck &ndash; the first one below and had portholes.  We were each given a hammock, but after the first night I preferred to sleep on the floor of deck as I was too tall and couldn't sleep comfortable in a hammock.  We passed quite close to Cape Byron and Yamba and could easily distinguish the various well known landmarks.  The sea was also very calm.  Twenty sat at each table for meals and I was one of the two orderlies for our table.  That meant laying table, clearing away and washing up, going to cook house for food &amp;c, but had its advantages as we were free from guards, drill and fatigue.  When the calm sea permitted drill was indulged in and there was always picquets and guards posted on various parts of the steamer.  We also had to attend the many lectures &amp;c that were given us.  After leaving the N.S.W. coast we kept a good way out and saw very little land.  Had a calm trip across the Great Australian Bight, which is very unusual.  On the tenth day out we sighted the Westralian coast and early next morning entered Fremantle Harbour and anchored in mid stream.  Went ashore in launches and I was on picquet duty for two hours.  Had a look over Fremantle and then took train to Perth (Twelve miles away) which is a very pretty city.  Sent a telegram home from here.  Returned to steamer at midnight.  The guard searched us as we went aboard to see if we had any liquor in our possession.  We weren't issued with any vinegar on the steamer, and as I was craving for some, bought a bottle at Fremantle and had it on me when I boarded the steamer.  The guard, when searching me, thought it was liquor and took it from me (even though I told him it was vinegar)</p>
