Monday 17th We did not go away as expected stayed home all day played cards had damnable luck all day went down to St G at night saw N.S. after saying good-bye previous night. Hear all sorts of rumours concerning the Light Horse and an engagement, we are desperately trying to get away in case we miss anything. Rec letter to-day from my brothers ? All Correct
Tuesday 18th Met N.S. in morning and through some intuition she said that it would be our last meeting so it was for shortly after dinner a call came for 61 men to go to Alexandria this afternoon. There was a great race to the orderly room and a scramble to get our names in we four mates were very fortunate, so we packed our kits and were marched right into Sliema thence across the ferry to the Grand Harbour then a roll call and so on three stowaways were sent back. Then on to a trawler which took us out to the big Orient troopship Orsova which was crowded with Tommies who were all very eager to see some Austs. We were besieged with questions until tea time and night and then we slept on deck. I managed to send a note to Win poor little thing she was broken up over it and I felt rather miserable too, as it has been a delightful romance but on my part could not develop any more, although I grew very fond of her and her sweet Irish ways.
Wednesday 19th We sailed at six am and then the fun started, all the troops on board are going out for their first time and the officers and men are all as raw as can be. Red Tape is everywhere and Tommyism is in its first place. There are only 37 Colonials on board and we fell foul of the officers immediately, an order was issued that every man had to wear a lifebelt night and day and go about the deck bare-footed. We all ignored the order and were being chased by subs Tommy sergeants. The recruits regard us a semi-gods and ask all sorts of questions, as soon as one talks he is surrounded. It is like the old soldiers the schoolboys. The best of all was when they made us sleep on deck at night. It seems as if they are really certain of being sunk and the officers and men are all panicky. They talk of nothing else except periscopes submarines day night.