<p class="page" id="a5653022">[Page 22]</p>
<p>of the streets was very oriental and the little sprinkling of western people only seemed to accentuate the eastern appearance by the contrast. On all sides were native shops and open stalls looking that dirty and untidy that you would think there was a competition for the dirtiest one. Standing outside thrusting some cheap trashy article under your nose was the owner, not forgetting to ask about five times its value, whilst little Arabs ran about holding their grimy hands out for "Baksheesh". Along the street comes the well to do, fat and contented turk, smiling complacently with his red cap on his head, his big body perched on the back of the little grey donkey, who ambles along in his gay trappings of red and gold, with the bell round his neck tinkling merrily as he wobbles his head and his long ears all the while, waving about like a pair of semaphore flags. Flashing past him is a gharry containing an officer and a red cross nurse, too absorbed to notice much.  It is indeed a place of contrasts for winding its way among the broken down and dilapidated native carts with their even more broken down donkey led by their owner dirty and contentedly chewing sugar cane, is a private carriage with a beautiful pair of shining black arab horses arching their graceful necks and tossing their stately heads, whilst on the footpath, midst the slovenly natives, and unwashed children walks the overdressed French women looking like peacocks in a pigsty. In the brass bazaar you could see the natives sitting in front  of their stall working on the plain brass chiselling out a design, the workers, in many cases being a mere boy. I bought three pieces of brassware after about five minutes of the usual bargaining for each piece, which generally ended by your getting it about half the price or less, I also bought an Egyptian Yahmash and a little broach set with small Abyssinian stones.<br/>Wednesday 16 &ndash; Thursday 17th Feb. 1916 Usual  routine.<br/>Friday 18th Feb. 1916 &ndash; To-day we moved into the D.A.C. lines so as to have all the artillery together, but we were not attached to it. Up to this date since our arrival in Egypt we have not done any training and when not on route marches or sightseeing our time was occupied by half hearted foot drill and signalling which I am afraid was not as long as the smokos.</p>