<p class="page" id="a5653032">[Page 32]</p>
<p>coming the other way were a great contrast with their mud bespatted clothes, grimy visages with their three or four days growth, whilst their nerves were all to pieces, for when near our guns as they fired, they gave a great start and wondered how we could stand the continual road.  But of course we do not notice it, and besides we have not been through that living hell which those poor chaps have braved. Nearly every evening at a given signal that valley becomes like a living monster of the mythical legends, roaring and spitting fire, as with one accord all the guns open out. Quickly the red veil of dust envelopes all and through it in every direction comes the fitful flashes, whilst we being the most forward battery, all shells pass over us or nearly so, making one continual buzz just like a hum of mosquitos, but the Germans alone knew the strength of their sting. Fluttering round these fitful flashes and lit up by their angry glare are the phantom like figures of the gunners as they feed these hungry monsters, who appear unsatiable, whilst above the din arises the clear voice of the officers calmly directing this great activity. The whole looks most weird amidst the smoke and dust.<br/>August 4th &ndash; To-night a big attack is to be launched and thousands of troops are winding their way, joking and laughing towards those fateful trenches, not knowing and not seeming to worry whether they will ever pass this way again. Certainly no thoughts of the inferno into which they are steadily marching, darkens their cheerful faces. Down in the valley, the long string of ambulance waggons are nearly complete, whilst the supply of ammunition, bombs and other man killing devices steadily flows along, ready to take its toll of many rounds of human flesh and blood.<br/>August 5th. &ndash; The ridge was captured early this morning and at 2.30 a.m. I had to take the instruments and accompany the O.C. to the valley behind the ridge into which our battery was going to move. About 30 gunners also came to dig gun pits. We had to wait in some stinking trenches for dawn when I accompanied the B.C. whilst he chose the position. We had wandered all over the place for several hours, before a position was finally</p>