Mon Dec 9
We tied up at Sthhampton somewhere about 8 o'clock. There we were met by a Serg from H.Q. who put us aboard a Train for London where we arrived about 11 a.m. at Waterloo. From here we hopped aboard a Bus and went to Victoria which is quite near Horseferry Rd.
Reported at 1.30 where they kept us fooling around from one office to another till about 1, then we went to a Red X Room where a chap gave us a sausage roll, and stale bun and a mouthful of cold tea in a cup. Various notices hung on the wall of the Hut informed us that this "splendid repast" was given to us by the Aust Red X. After fooling around for another couple of hours they gave us a pass and told us to report again at 10 am tomorrow.
We went to the War Chest Club, where we had a good feed for the modest sum of a shilling. Then I booked a Bed for the night. After that I went to the Pay Office and go my Book fixed up. They only gave me 16/-, but that was enough for one night. I booked a seat for the "Garrick Theatre" to see "By Pigeon Post". I would have liked to see "George Robey" in the "Bing Boys" but all the seats were booked. We got a 10/6 seat for 3/6. 
Had Tea a War Aust, shaved and went to the Show which was very good.
Tues Dec 11
"Turned out" about 9 after a good night's sleep. Had Breakfast, sausage and egg, porridge, coffee, bread and butter, then reported to O.R. at 10 am as ordered. The Serg wanted to make out our Railway Warrant for Tidworth, but I stuck out against that and got paraded to Capt Sorrensen, who said "Certainly they are to go to Weymouth". This made us smile. 
We left Waterloo at 12.30, and arrived at Weymouth about 4.30. Marched to Westham Camp where we were allotted to Huts. Tom Murrell and I went into Weymouth and had Tea. Then we strolled along the Prom for a while and returned to Camp about 9, where we were soon in Bed and asleep.
Wed 11
After dinner we paraded again and marched to Weymouth Station, where we boarded the Train for Upwey. This was only about a 3 mile trip. From Upwey we marched to Littlemoor Camp. It must be very pretty around here in Summer, but it is rather cheerless looking country now. 20 of us were allotted to B Hut.