<p class="page" id="a5653010">[Page 10]</p>
<p>several Islands on horizon coming sheer out of water for what must be about 6 or 7 hundred feet and forming a long succession of sharp peaks. It is very funny to see the way boys are making money. Some are selling juice made by the cooks and getting a commission and also chocolates from the ship's stores. Others have bought post cards of the Berrima for 1d. at the Sargeants canteen and go round selling them for 2d. catching a few green ones. There has been a lot of gambling on board during the voyage, two-up, banker and another game whereby a man gives out cards with irregular numbers on them, making up 100 numbers in a bag and draws them one by one, and the man who first fills up a line in his card by those drawn out gets 4/-.<br/>Friday 21.1.16 &ndash; We had to wear boots and leggings on parade to-day in order to get used to them before disembarking. This morning two very curious islands presented themselves to our eyes which were naturally looking for anything to interest them. They were quite extensive in area and appeared flat as a billiard table, rising only about 20 feet out of the water. They looked like huge slabs of rock floating on the surface of the water, whilst one had a lighthouse right in the centre. Later we saw the mainland which is very hilly, some of the peaks being exceedingly sharp. About 4 p.m. we entered the Gulf of Suez and saw the Sinai Peninsular on the starboard side. I have never seen land as barren, as it appeared to be a long chain of high and rugged sand hills, although owing to their steepness and sharp points they must be sandstone. In front of this chain is a tremendous smooth beach running the whole length of it and on it smaller peaks which at the distance looked as if children had been playing castles on Manly Beach. To-night everybody is cleaning his gear whilst some, thinking it is their last night on board which it probably is, are as usual kicking up a row. About tea time we passed two ships stranded on the sand. The wind this morning became almost a gale and the ship pitched a lot, whilst at times the sea became calm.<br/>Saturday 22.1.16 Last night there was a bitterly cold wind which went through any number of blankets you liked to pile on. At reveilly this morning we were steaming to our anchorage in the harbour at Suez. The men had not yet risen, but there was a nearly full moon which was brilliantly reflected on the absolutely smooth</p>