<p class="page" id="a5653011">[Page 11]</p>
<p>full moon which was brilliantly reflected in the absolutely smooth surface of the bay, whilst the sand ridges on either side were sharply outlined against the sky looking very grim and silent and certainly not inviting.  About 6.30 we had reached our anchoring place and dropped the anchor. In front of us were three warships the first reminders of war we had had since leaving Freemantle, and just to the right in the distance one could discern the town of Suez shrouded in an early morning mist. Soon, however, a fiery ball began to creep up over those bare sand hills giving everything a reddish glow and soon the curtain of dawn was swept away and we could see the entrance to the Canal and the town quite clearly.  This busy little patch was an oasis in the general scene of bare sand hills around us, which, however, with the sea a beautiful light blue, owing to the sandy bottom, forming a wonderful setting for the long even beaches and the rugged sand hills forming a back ground, was a pretty sight in the bright sunlight. We lay at this anchorage all day, and had rather an interesting time watching the passing ships and different objects of interest. The water birds come in flocks and would swarm about any rubbish squabbling and squeaking and these white creature with beautiful pink feathers on the back and wing fluttering over a sea of wonderful azure blue formed a pretty sight. The birds themselves are smaller than our sea gulls, having a great resemblance to the dove and when they alighted on the grim grey battleships in the harbour, the emblems of peace and war formed a strange contrast. To-night there is much speculations as to where we are going to as we disembark  early to-morrow morning.<br/> Saturday 23/1.16. We fell in about 9.30 and disembarked and entrained at 10 a.m. at Port Suez.  The carriages were small rough ones after the style of the suburban trains, and were 3rd class.  As soon as we landed the natives came along selling oranges, post cards, cigarettes and all sorts of articles, asking about twice their value and expecting to be beaten down. Then the little native children came along calling out "Baksheesh" which means "nothing" and that is they ask for things for nothing. We travelled all that day alongside the canal till about 6.30 when we disentrained and went into camp at Leitown. On</p>