
In that bag was a letter to all the 'dear sports' of the Aus. Flying Corps, from G. Felmy, a letter to Claude's father from Felmy with a large photo of Claude and Felmy standing side by side. A large photo of the German Air Company all numbered and named, a box of Turkish cigarettes for "My dear Murray Jones" - more photos of Claude & Felmy for us. They treated Claude as an honoured guest, not a prisoner of war, until he had to go on up the line. So you see there is a good feeling between us and our enemies, of our own branch. I have got all these photos and also photos of their letters, which I will send home on first opportunity. We've promised Ober. Lt. Felmy not to let his or their letters get into the papers, as it would be liable to get them into dire trouble.
You know, a big paper Aus. or English, would give 100 for the story we could tell them, with the photos.
I am writing this sitting up in bed, so forgive scrawl etc., I am quite all right really, only just run down & need a rest. I'll soon be going back to the squadron. Tell me your next letter how everything is going at home .......
(private and personal matter on this sheet)
[Transcriber's notes:Aboukir page 49 - there is a village called Aboukir in Alexandria.A.M.C. page 21 - Army Medical Corps.Barrage page 26 - this was probably the Delta Barrage that was completed in 1862. Its purpose was to improve irrigation in the Nile DeltaBe2E page 57 - is BE2e The Royal Aircraft Factory B.E.2 was a British single-engine two-seat biplane in service with the Royal Flying Corps during WW1Enoggera page 2 - Enoggera Military Camp still exists and is about 10 kms from the centre of BrisbaneFelmy - page 61 - Capt Helmuth Felmy was born in Berlin on 28 May 1885. In 1904, he joined the army and in 1912 became a pilot. During World War I, Felmy commanded a squadron on the Turkish front in Palestine. After the war, he remained in the German military and in 1938 he was promoted to General der Flieger ie Air Force General. By the beginning of World War II, Felmy commanded Air Fleet 2 of the Luftwaffe. In May 1941.  From 1943 to 1944, he commanded the LXVlll of the German Army. In 1948, in Nuremburg Felmy was accused of war crimes in Greece and sentenced to 15 years gaol. On 15 January 1951, he was released early. He died in 1965.Felmy - page 61 - Ober Lt Gerard Felmy. A short article about Ross "Haji" Smith, the best Allied aviator in the Middle East, tells us: "The most capable German pilot in Palestine was Gerhard Felmy, a particular courageous and capable pilot..."Field Family page 4 - was a well known Durban family.  The original Mr Coote Field was Natal's first director of Customs.Helouan page 33 - is Helwan about 20kms south of Cairo.Huj page 63 - was an airfield in Palestine, near Gaza.Imshi page 32 - be gone!, shoo! from the Arabic.Khedive page 17 - a ruler of Egypt from 1867 to 1914 governing as a viceroy of the sultan of TurkeyKrantz Kloof page 4 - is an area in Kwa Zulu Natal about 20 miles inland from Durban.  It is now a nature reserve.  It seems that Butler was originally from Durban.Ma'adi is about 10kms south of the centre of CairoMartinsydes page 57 - The company was first formed in 1908 as a partnership between H.P. Martin and George Handasyde and known as Martin & Handasyde. Their No.1 monoplane was built in 1908-1909 and succeeded in lifting off the ground before being wrecked in a gale. They went on to build a succession of largely monoplane designs although it was a biplane, the S.1 of 1914 that turned Martin-Handasyde into a successful aircraft manufacturer.McNamara Capt. Frank VC - McNamara took part in a raid bombing a Turkish supply train.  McNamara was wounded when one of his bombs did not release properly and exploded about 30ft below McNamara's plane.  He was hit by a piece of shrapnel in his right buttock.  McNamara turned for home and spotted an aircraft on the ground not far from the railway.  He could see the pilot of the aircraft and could also see some Turkish cavalry approaching the downed aircraft and pilot.  McNamara landed his plane. The downed pilot (Rutherford) ran to McNamara and asked for assistance but after McNamara told him of the approaching Turks, climbed onto the wing of McNamara's plane and they took off.  The extra weight and his wounds meant that McNamara could not control the plane and they crashed, damaging the plane but with no further injuries to the two pilots. By this time the Turks were close enough to start firing at them. The pilots then went to Rutherford's plane which was not too badly damaged.  McNamara climbed into the pilot's seat, McNamara swung the propeller, the plane started  and off they flew.  By this time the Turks were apparently firing at point blank range but nevertheless the two pilots escaped.Pinkenba on page 10 - is near the mouth of the Brisbane River.Ramleh page 64 - probably Ramla which is a few miles NE of JerusalemVilla Montrose, Heliopolis - page 52 -Villa Montrose, Ave de Pyramids eventually became a home in which some Australian nurses lived during the war.]
[Transcribed by Miles Harvey and John Glennon for the State Library of New South Wales]
