<p class="page" id="a5998013">[Page 13]</p>
<p>August continued. They could not even provide drinks for the Officers mess and the food was very short and it took a long time to get it served up. We did not complain as we had made up our minds to put up with anything that came along. I managed to get a cabin to myself opposite to the one occupied by Hoskins and Evans. The heat became oppressive and I much appreciated the extra freedom a 4 birth cabin allows for one occupant. We did not yet know what kind of an O.C. we had struck and wondered who was going to take charge of No 9 platoon and also who was going to be 2nd in Command of the company. The ship took on a lot of A.M.C. stores and ammunition which was afterwards issued to the men.<br/> At the wharf native, men and women came asking for backshis" meaning money and some of the men pitched them money and soon their numbers increased. The native police in their red hats and blue uniform chased them away with a thick stick which they carry. It was quite hopeless as no sooner was one lot chased away than another lot would take their place. One old woman with a baby I remember particularly was most persistent and when she was hit with the stick she made a terrible fuss. I wondered why the wharf authorities did not complain to the O.C. Troops , I could not make  out. The civil authority tried to stop with all their might just what the troops were encouraging.<br/>Alexandria was full of ships, and at least 6 Hospital ships could be seen and one came in while we were there. One or two Battleships were there, one being a French boat. We loaded two iron clad small boats, one on each side fore and aft. We all wanted to know what they were for, some said to clear the narrows of mines but of course they were only guessing. I remember little of the journey acRoss except that we had an armed guard on the boat deck each end and two machine guns ready to shoot at submarine if it appeared. It was certain that if we did get hit by a torpedo that half of us would be finished as the boats would not carry half the men, if they were seaworthy which was very doubtful.<br/> Boat drill alarm was held and each Officer had charge of a boat. All ranks had to wear a life belt, and also to carry it about with him for the remainder of the voyage. To be orderly officer on Saturnis was just about the worst job I have ever had, everything was so mixed up that it was impossible to get satisfaction of any sort. Lack of proper organisation and method would have caused great inconvenience had the voyage been longer. If we had been hit by a torpedo I am sure I do not know what would have happened and did not like to think about it.<br/>By this time we had found out that we were to land near the Salt Lake, make a road and connect up with other troops. The Salt Lake is just to the right of Suvla Bay.</p>