<p class="page" id="a8733054">[Page 54]</p>
<p>animals, and transport were arriving at Alexandria and Port Said.  The components of this mass had to be disentangled and forwarded to their proper destinations; old units had to be re-organized, new units to be created, brigades, divisions, Army Corps to be re-formed.  The British troops from Gallipoli were incomplete in personnel and material.  It was urgently necessary to bring them up to strength, re-equip them, and provide them with train and mechanical transport on a modified scale.  The Australasian troops also needed re-equipment, and, in their case, there was the additional problem of dealing with a mass of unabsorbed reinforcements.  Further training of officers and men was an urgent necessity.  Moreover, the embarkation of troops for service elsewhere began in February and continued without intermission till the end of April.  To this work must be added not only the maintenance of my Force, both in Egypt and Salonica, with animals, supplies, ordnance stores, works material, and medical and veterinary stores, but also the provision and despatch of ordnance stores, works material, and supplies specially demanded for Basrah and East Africa.</p>
<p>The bulk of the work of disembarkation and embarkation, including the very heavy work of railway transport, fell upon the staffs of my Deputy Quartermaster-General and Inspector-General of Communications, to whom great credit is due.  This work, together with the task of supplying and maintaining the troops operating on the eastern, and subsequently also on the western, front, was efficiently carried out by the Ordnance, Supply and Transport, Remount, Works departments.</p>
<p>As regards instruction, a training centre for Australasian reinforcements was started at Tel el Kebir and continued until it was decided that the Australasian training depots should be transferred to England.  Further, a machine-gun school was formed at Ismailia which, after producing excellent results, was merged in the Imperial School of Instruction at Zeitoun.  The latter institution, which came under my control after 19th March, has since been increased in size so as to train officers in all branches of warfare.  Under its commandant, Lieut.-Colonel the Hon. E. M. Colston, M.V.O., its work has been most valuable.  Besides the ordinary courses for officers and non-commissioned officers, it holds machine-gun, Lewis gun, signal and telephone, artillery, Stokes gun, and grenadier classes.  Between 7th January and 31st May, 1,166 officers and 5,512 other ranks attended and passed in the various classes.  A machine-gun school was also started at Salonica.</p>
<p>Excellent work has been done by the signal service during this period.  In the first place, it has efficiently carried out the work of refitting the signal units from the Peninsula, reorganizing them to suit the conditions peculiar to Egypt, and training locally officers and men to fill the gaps and meet the increased demand for signallers and telegraphists.  Ninety-four officers and 1,305 other ranks have been trained in these duties at Zeitoun and Alexandria this year.  Secondly, it has had to provide inter-communication for troops engaged upon over 1,000 miles of front, which has involved the development of an unusually extensive network of military telegraphs.  All the resource and ingenuity of the service has been taxed to cope with the conditions peculiar to this field of operations &ndash; abnormal distances, unusual means of transport, desert, sand storms and mirage.  Lastly, it has substituted a military telegraph and telephone service for the civil system which, until this year, had been the only available means of communication throughout Egypt and was worked mainly by native personnel.</p>
<p>I would also specially mention the survey work that has been carried out since the arrival of the Mediterranean Expeditionary Force in Egypt.  In addition to the standardization, printing and issue of tactical maps of Sinai to the whole of the army on the eastern front, a new survey on</p>
