<p class="page" id="a8733042">[Page 42]</p>
<p>hole.  Both were shot.  A machine gun was turned at once on to the line of heads.  They started hopping back down their tumbled sap towards the German rear.  Clearly they were Germans.  The machine gun made fast practice as the line of backs showed behind the parapet.</p>
<p>There were Germans, not Australians, in the trenches on the Tasmanians' left &ndash; in the same trench as they.  The flank there was in the air.  There was nothing to do except to barricade the trench, and hold the flank as best they could, and for the next two days they held it, shelled with every sort of gun and trench mortar, although fresh companies of the Prussian Guard Reserve constantly filed into the gap which existed between this point and Mouquet Farm.  Their old leader, who had promised to reach that trench with them, was not there.  They found him lying dead within a few yards of it, straight in front of the machine gun which they had silenced.  So he had kept his promise &ndash; and lost his life.  They had a young officer and a few sergeants.  All through that day their numbers slowly dwindled.  They held the trench all the next night, and in the grey dawn of the second day a sentry, looking over the trench, saw the Germans a little way outside of it.  As he pointed them out he fell back, shot through the head.  They told the Queenslanders, and the Queenslanders came out instantly and bombed from their side in rear of the Germans.  The Queensland officer was shot dead, but the Germans were cleared out or killed.</p>
<p>That afternoon the Germans attacked that open flank with heavy artillery.  For hours shell after shell crashed into the earth around.  A heavy battery found the barricade, and put its four heavy shells systematically round it.  They reduced the garrison as far as possible, and four or five only were kept by the barricade.  They were not all Australians now.  The inevitable shell came through their shelter, and left only two.  Then others were brought to stand by.  Shells were falling anything from thirty to forty in the minute.  The garrison, dwindled to a handful, had to shorten its length of trench, bringing in the wounded with it.  One of the remaining sergeants &ndash; a Lewis gunner &ndash; came back from an errand crawling, wounded dangerously through the neck.  "I don't want to go away," he said.  "If I can't work a Lewis gun, I can sit by another chap and tell him how to."  In the end, when he was sent away he was seen crawling on his knees and one hand, guiding with the other hand a fellow gunner who had been hit.</p>
<p>That night a big gun, much bigger than the rest, sent its shells roaring down through the sky somewhere near.  The men would be wakened by the shriek of it, and then fall asleep, and wake again by the crash of the explosion.  And still they held the trench.  Messages used to come into headquarters &ndash; I saw them myself &ndash; giving the exact state of affairs.  Every other message ended, "But we will hold on."  The relief came.  The fresh troops were able to quickly re-establish the line where it had been shortened, and to round off unoccupied corners &ndash; grand fellows, those relieving troops, and in great heart.  And the men who had hung on to that flank almost within shouting distance of Mouquet Farm for two wild days and nights came out of the fight asking, "Can you tell me if we have got Mouquet Farm?"  We had not.  The fierce fighting in the broken centre had enabled us to hold all the ground gained upon the crest.  But through this same gap the Germans had come back against the farm.  They swarmed in upon the garrison of the farm, driving the men who were holding that flank gradually in.  Under heavy shell fire the line dwindled and dwindled until the Western Australians, who had won the farm and held it for five hours, numbered barely sufficient to make good their retirement.  The officer left in charge there, himself wounded, withdrew the remnant.  And the Germans entered the farm again.</p>
<p>But on the crest the line still held.  The guard reserve counter-attacked it three times, and on the last occasion the Queenslanders had such deadly shooting against Germans in the open as cheered them, in spite of all their failure.  I saw tho</p>
