<p class="page" id="a8733055">[Page 55]</p>
<p>a large scale of the Canal zone and certain areas east of our lines and advanced posts has been continuously carried on by the Topographical Section of the Intelligence Branch, working in close co-operation with the Royal Flying Corps.  This survey, which has now been in process for nearly six months, is now approaching Qatia.  I believe that the map based on this survey is the first map entirely constructed on this principle.  The work was initiated by Mr. E. M. Dowson, Director-General, Survey of Egypt, who placed his resources at the disposal of the Mediterranean Expeditionary Force.  The actual direction of the work has been in the hands of the Intelligence Branch of my General Staff, and is based on experience, gained in Gallipoli, of the production of trench maps from aeroplane photographs, controlled by ordinary field survey methods.  Co-operation in this survey has been part of the routine of the Royal Flying Corps.</p>
<p>These labours, most of which demanded the utmost despatch in their completion, were carried out concurrently with the conduct of more strictly military operations, to my report on which I will now proceed.</p>
<p>3. When I arrived in Egypt the intentions of the enemy as regards an attack on the Suez Canal were by no means certain.  Though his new means of communication in southern Syria and Sinai, commenced with this end in view, were still in a backward state, he undoubtedly had at his disposal the troops, amounting to 250,000 men or more, necessary for such an attack.  The adequate defence of the Canal was, therefore, a matter of serious importance.  The outline of a scheme of defence had already been prepared; certain works were being constructed, railways and pipe-lines and roads commenced, and troops were being concentrated in the three sections of the Canal defences, which were based on Suez, Ismailia, and Port Said respectively.   Satisfactory agreement was arrived at between Sir John Maxwell and myself regarding the delimitations of our respective spheres of command and the troops to be allotted to him.  On 22nd January General Head-quarters opened at Ismailia.</p>
<p>My chief concern was now the defence of the Canal.  The work on the stationary defences was backward.  Difficulties of water supply on the east bank were increased by shortage of piping; labour troubles had delayed the progress of roads and railways.  Guns had still to be emplaced, and no part of the front defence line was actually occupied by troops.  Nevertheless, as there were no signs of an imminent advance on the part of the enemy, the question of the stationary defences caused me no serious anxiety, though everything possible was done to hasten on their completion.  The organization of the offensive defence, which time has proved to be paramount, was, however, a pressing matter hitherto untouched.  Practically nothing had been done towards the organization of mobile forces.  The collection of a large number of riding and transport camels had to be undertaken at once and a plan of campaign to be devised.  Moreover, time was short, for it was plain that any offensive on a large scale by the enemy must be commenced before the middle of March.  For the force under my command the only possible line of advance was along the northern line from Qantara towards Qatia and El Arish, and the task was at once taken up of examining the possibilities of an offensive on this line and solving the problem of maintaining a considerable force at Qatia during the summer months.  The result of these investigations is to be seen in my memorandum of 15th February addressed to the Chief of the Imperial General Staff, in which I stated that the first step towards securing the true base for the defence of Egypt was an advance to a suitable position east of Qatia and the construction of a railway to that place.</p>
<p>Up to the middle or February aeroplane reconnaissance was the only active military operation possible, owing to the need for reorganizing the</p>
