

Monday 27th Sept. 1915

Sent a long letter to Mab. ack hers of 1st Aug. Sent Field Card to Gran.

Eiffel Tower report 27th Sept. (inter alia) The French attack north of Arras has made further progress. They have taken by assault the whole village of Souchez and are victorious in the east in the direction of Givenchy & further to the south they have reached La Folie. In Champagne the French have continued to gain ground and after having crossed almost along the whole front of the powerful system of trenches & works constructed & strengthened by the enemy during many months, have advanced the towards the north compelling the Germans to fall back on their second line of trenches 3 or 4 kilos in the rear. The Germans have suffered very heavy losses, and have left behind in the abandoned works a considerable quantity of material which has not yet been estimated, but already the capture of 24 field guns is reported.

The number of prisoners taken increased momentarily & is already 16000 unwounded, of whom at least 200 are officers, & along the whole front during 2 days fighting the allies have captured over 20000 prisoners.

War Office telegram 27/9/15 (inter alia). The British attacked the enemy south of La Bassee Canal & captured his trenches on a front of 5 miles, penetrating his lines in some places to a distance of 4000 yds.

The situation in the eastern front is much more hopeful. The Russians have been able to escape the Germans in the north & to counter attack with energy. They have retaken Vilecken & the captured 7 machine guns wh they turned on the fleeing enemy. Further south the Germans were almost also beaten & Loquichine was reoccupied by the Russians. The most successful of the Russian attacks took place in the Lutzk region. Here the Russians carried an enemy position & took 80 officers & 4000 rank & file prisoners, & much war booty. Another 1000 prisoners were taken on the Stry.

All this good news sent me whistling about the office but I was promptly hauled up by the Major, who said, "Stop that Rhodes, it disturbs the equanimity of the office". And I was not surprised, for I was never whistling was never my forte.


