

Sunday 28th Nov 1915

Visited with snowstorm early hours of morning. Still falling when I awoke. Whole of the country under a mantle of white. Fall judged to be about 4 inches. Am frightfully sick myself, with overpowering nausea & no appetite. Absolutely unfit for duty. My back also is worrying me. Have been [indecipherable] to complain for last two days. With the traffic, there was soon mud everywhere. I have never seen such slosh – its absolutely impossible to get through it – slide, slip, & slither all over the place, if you are luck enough not to get stuck in it ankle deep.

Monday 29th Nov 1915

Compelled to report sick, sent to No. 2 M R Field Amb. with jaundice. Insufficient room there: sent from there to Casualty Clearing Station, but I refused the accommodation there & went back to my bivouac.

Tuesday 30th Nov 1915

APMS has now sent me to N.Z. Field Amb. Attention good, but food poor & ill-cooked.

Wednesday 1st Dec 1915

Have been sent again to Clearing Station with lumbago & jaundice. Expect to be evacuated shortly. Every man for himself here – with plenty of fleas, lice. Food bad. Biscuits again with black tea.

Thursday 2nd Dec 1915

Left the Clearing Station, thank God, this morning & taken aboard S/S Oxfordshire, a three master hospital ship – excellently fitted.

Friday 3rd Decr 1915

Spent a comfortable night - first sleep for a week – left about 4 a.m. for Mudros where we arrived in due course. Have no idea of my ultimate destination. Had Enjoyed the luxury of a hot sea bath & had my clothes thoroughly disinfected.

Am feeling none too bright.

Left Mudros about 2 o’clock for Alexandria.

Saturday 4th Decr 1915

Life on hospital ship pleasant & comfortable. Member of 17th BN died & was buried at sea. An R.C service performed by C E Chaplain.

Sunday 5th Decr 1915

Arrived Alexandria shortly after breakfast. Disembarked about 3 o’clock & boarded trains for Helipolis. Red Cross served us with tea, bread & butter, & other comforts on the way across. Arrived outside Palace Hospital Heliopolis at about 7 o’clock at night. We were then sorted out & I was taken with a number of others to Luna Park Hospital by Red Cross Motor Wagon.

Served with hot cocoa & biscuits, &


