

Sunday 10th Oct 1915

The glorious tenth – 28 years ago saw me in swaddling clothes. If I were given my life again would I live that life again?

An uneventful day – sent Field Service Cards to Mum, Grace & Mab to remind them I am well – and I know they will all be thinking of me.

Monday 11th Oct 1915

Experienced a rain storm about midday – quickly passed over but was very severe while it lasted. Captain Mair has arrived as GSO 3 vice Captain who has been here only a couple of days & has now gone to GHQ. Capt. Mair is just from France where he secured the Military Cross. A long lank attenuated Irishman, keen & full of life, & a gentleman every inch of him. Quite distinct to Capt. – who was for ever twisting an exceply. pretty little mo’ & took more pains with his toilet than interest in his work. He was also from France – but the vista of the life here did not suit his particular fancy. There was nothing here compatible with the conditions he had enjoyed in France. "Damn it all" he remarked "one does get tuned up with shell there, but you could get a drink occasionally & secure a comfortable bed. Why Divisional Hqrs. in France is about 11 miles back from the firing line, in an up-to-date spanking house & you have your motor cars, jolie demoiselles, etc." "And what the devil becomes of the mail here. In France we have it at least once a day, some times twice, oh dear me, this is the last place God made." And he walked to the door & gazed mournfully at the scene before him. Nothing but stunted gorse, & civilization nowhere.

Capt. Herbert has gone sick with dysentery. Ex consular service at Constantinople & a hero of Mons, the Hon. Aubrey Herbert MP was a characteristic figure while in camp. Tall & thin, with small head nestling to his shoulders with unbecoming severity, he appears to be in a state of perpetual effervescence. His face is never rigid, it is for ever crinkled with a smile & laughter & good fellowship His eyes are small dark & beady, & short-ranged, an aftermath of his trials in France – his sight has been practically destroyed by high explosives. So, poor fellow, they are continually getting him into trouble because his feet are naturally crosswise & two such physical defects must inevitably clash. But he displays wonderful agility for all that.

He dresses in a mauve-colored suit of high sartorial cut. He talks with the full flavor of British aristocratic ton - & is dreadfully careful of his hair, teeth & finger nails. His external effeminacy you would never associate with an hero of the battlefield. He is a living example of the hero of the modern melodramatic novel. He is always talking of the latest hair wash, pomades, & perfumes & you can always tell his whereabouts by the trail of violet that follows him. He indulges in Turkish delight & often makes of a meal of it in preference to roast beef & potatoes. He uses eau-de-cologne galore. A cheerful conversationalist, & spins many a good yarn. There is no excessive aristocrat about him, but his talk displays a ready wit & a brilliant brain. He is never bored or wearied & always gets what he wants. If he does not succeed at first he sticks at what he’s after till he gets it. A good trier & a bold soldier. "If you can’t get anything from someone you particularly desire, make love to them" is one of his witticisms & he has found it fairly successful by experience.


