<p class="page" id="a3361072">[Page 72]</p>
<p>Bayonet Trench Flers  21/11/16  Our line hereabouts most irregular and twisty.  Out in front our dead lie thick &ndash; hundreds in trim rows just as the machine guns mowed then down. Poor boys!  Back across country to the terrace.  Rifles and spades used to mark the track.  The old tank lies in the midst of a storm centre.  Special attention is paid to pasting its vicinity. [indecipherable] a grave here with a small cross made by our chaps "Here lies a German soldier. We bear no enmity against the dead!" After tea (which consisted of nothing else but nothing to eat and a cup of cold cocoa) our old friend the Company Commander of the Royal North Lancs. turned up and went into details of the relief with him.  After that our English liaison officer also turned up and we spent a very pleasant evening yarning with two of the most decent English officers I have ever met.  Royal Lancs. was an old Mons veteran who told us tales of the great Retreat and some stories of Hun atrocities and Liaison was a Gallipoli veteran of the 29th Div.  Splendid chaps both of them and genuine sports.  The enemy shelling was normal and one shell landed right in the middle of a crowd of the Tommies but hurt none.  The relief was a hell of a muddle the men arrived few in numbers and quite done to death and exhausted.  Some fell in the mud and lay there with their guns near the tank quite out to it.  Due to bringing them up in gum boots which tore all their trouser buttons off and tripped them up every step they took. "Sandy" another young officer and "Davis" both decent chaps came in quite speechless with exhaustion and nearly crying. All my officers out helping things and in short, merry hell everywhere.  10.30 pm. I hope to get things a bit straight soon parties seem to be getting lost and rambling about all over the place.  The enemy is very silent and it is suspected that he is also on the same game.  Let's hope he is in as big a fix.  Issued orders holding all the men out on the terrace so in the event of trouble there is a reserve but at present there are a 100 yards of trench without a single man in it. Spread their men out as well as possible and made a sort of chain along the front line.</p>
