<p class="page" id="a3361065">[Page 65]</p>
<p>In Action Flers 19/11/16  Very many gumboots lay embedded in the mud and close inspection disclosed sometimes detached legs and feet in them. In a shell hole full of water the thin white lipped face of a young dead German smiled at us in a ghastly way.  On the 'terrace' a man accosted me and accused me of stealing his pick.  Sheepskin coat, steel helmet and a coating of mud make one look anything but an officer and gentleman.  77's and other light shells kept sniping us as we crept along bowed double and dashed across open spaces.  Trenches were only 2 or 3 feet deep in places and underfoot were queer unshapen objects embedded in the mud and assuming corpse like shapes. One neat little grave had a cross inscribed "here lies a German soldier'.  In the mud and slush were small groups of men huddled miserably up together &ndash; our firing line garrison.  Some had attempted to construct "bivvies" but others sat huddled up in pairs sitting silent.  Pushed right along my whole battalion front floundering at times up to the waist in a solution of creamy mud and semi &ndash; melted ice.  We could see the Germans working in their trenches about 100 yards in front of us.  All rations and ammunition are carried up nightly to us.  Sanitary arrangements there are none. Men use shell holes as latrines or deposit excreta upon an old sand bag and then throw it over the parapet.  In short my men are in a dreadful scene of mud, pain and desolation and every inch of ground is saturated with blood of warring men.  All day shells whine and tear overhead and rip further into the landscape.  Days are short and the nights are long and full of discomfort to the boys.  A few of them are using "Tommies cookers" which burn solidified alcohol in an old tin.  The Australian rum we are being issued with is excellent and the genuine article.  We settle down feet underground in our evil smelling crowded dugout to another night.  A constant reverberation shakes the dugout &amp; the concussion of shells makes our candle flames quiver &ndash; at a heavy concussion they expire.</p>
