After dinner the Mess Orderlies are again busy, while the men lounge about, or play quoits, cards, or other games, until "Fall in" at 2 p.m. calls them again to duty. At 4 p.m. the "Retire" is blown, and at 4-30 the men are dismissed for the day. Tea is served at 4-45 p.m., when invariably a hot scone, with cheese or bully beef, and jam, comprise the evening meal.
After tea, the boys are again at play. The piano, which however, is the worse for wear (except for the one which the Y.M.C.A. lends for Concerts c.) is made use of to the some extent. Here and there you will find a man with his flute, Cornet, or Mouth Organ, and the strains of old familiar tunes rend the air. Boxing is a favourite pastime, and is much indulged in, while gambling, I am sorry to say, goes on almost incessantly, although the latter is punishable according to Orders.
At 7 p.m. Hammocks are drawn, but as the nights are getting warmer, the men, instead of sleeping down on the Mess decks, are to be seen choosing their quarters on the upper deck, where they slumber peacefully under the stars. It is quite a sight at night to see them stretched out in rows along the deck, while others are hanging to the rigging, or tied up to spars or other gear. Much amusement is caused, however, if during the night a storm should disturb their slumbers. Down comes the rain, and a general scatter is the result, men and blankets scurring for shelter. Some, however, sleep right through the showers, and in the morning they are to be seen asleep under their waterproof sheets, just as if it were the best of weather. To walk the deck when the boys have decided to sleep on deck, is a tricky business, requiring some skill to avoid putting one's foot on either a head or an arm, when the ship has some roll on.
As the days go by, other duties come into force. There are times to be set apart for the washing of clothes, and as all Units cannot do their washing on the same day, seperate days are set apart for each unit. On those days, lines are hung with articles of clothing of every description, but whether the color of the garments as they hang on the lines would make a good advertisement for Sunlight Soap, it is questionable, still the clothes are clean, and that fills the bill on a troopship.
Other days are set apart for "Making Mending", the airing of blankets, checking of kits and equipment, hammocks, c. I must mention here that there is on the ship, an Inhaling Room. Parades are made to this room at frequent intervals during the voyage for the purpose of fumigation. About 50 men enter at a time, and by means of a steam pipe or tube, emitting steam at a point conjointly with another tube containing Zinc Sulphate disinfectant, it sends into the atmosphere of the room a steamy vapour which is inhaled, and becomes a destroyer of any germs that might be lurking round. This is necessary on board a troopship where a number of men are grouped so closely together for say a couple of months at the least. Next to this room is the Isolation Hospital, but of course no access is obtainable to it from any part of the ship except by the steps leading up to the one and only door, and at the foot of the steps a Guard is posted.
Before I proceed further with this narrative, I would like to dwell just a moment on the subject of bird life at sea, and other items of passing interest, which may be just a little off the point, but worthy of note.
Before the ship is many days on its journey across the Ocean, the sea birds make their appearence. The most noticeable is the Albatross (reminding one of "The Ancient Mariner") which I might say is almost a constant companion, especially when in mid ocean. This bird flies around the ship day after day, in search of food of any description that may be thrown over the side. If it were not for his presence, life on the sea for the troops would be void of much interest, as a transport generally keeps well away from the ordinary trade route, thereby minimising any chance of seeing a passing sail.