Friends and relatives line the streets on either side, or walk along with the men to the station. They are soon at the station, and the entrainment is the work of a few minutes. Immediately the windows are up, and then blocked with the lads who are eager to wave their "goodbyes" from any vantage point. All aboard the green flag is waved, and they're off. The train moves swiftly so must this narrative, or the boys will not be there before the war ends.
On detraining, the boys line up and march to the steamer. On the wharf their embarkation cards are handed to them, and certain orders as to the space allotted to each unit is made known. In proper order they march up the gangway, hand in their embarkation card, and go aboard. After the allotment of messes is complete, the men quickly divest themselves of their kits and equipment, and make for the deck. By this time the wharf is crowded with relatives and friends. Colored streamers are thrown aboard, fruit, and other little articles are passed up, last farewells are spoken, and eager faces watch while the gangway and mooring lines are lifted. Slowly the big vessel moves away, and one by one the streamers break at the strain, and the last tie to dear ones and friends is severed.
Down the bay she sails, and the boys watch from the deck and the rigging at the fast receding shore, until it is lost to their vision. With a sigh they make for the troop deck, and their attention is then given to making themselves comfortable. While thus engaged, "Cookhouse" sounds, and the first meal aboard (which is invariably Tea) is partaken of.
It is a strange gathering, and everything appears strange. Tea over, the boys again take to the deck, but there is little time to spare, as hammocks and blankets have to be distributed and a selection of sleeping "possies" to be made. The hammocks are soon in position on the hooks, and as the boys have had some late nights during the last week ashore, they are not long ere they are "Rocked in the cradle of the deep" to a peaceful slumber.
To look at the hammocks as they hang in rows to the hooks in the roof, would remind one of frozen mutton hanging in a refrigerating chamber. But they are the boys at rest, dreaming of home and loved ones, and this is their first night at sea.
First day at sea. The throb of the engines has awakened many of the boys early this morning. Reveille sounded at 6 a.m. but things today are somewhat mixed. On awaking it was impossible to understand for the moment where they were, or what had happened, but the roll of the ship soon reveals to them that they are at sea, and this is their first morning on the briny. They hop out, roll blankets and hammocks, dress, and make for the troop deck as soon as they can. The steamer rolls and pitches, and land is nowhere in sight. Here and there some of the boys feel unwell, and in a very short time a few will be found leaning on the ship's rail looking dismally at the white foam. Others are sitting around with a look of utter despair on their faces. Then an unfamiliar sound from our "cobbo" at the rail tells us that he is losing last night's tea. Others join in and it is not long before many teas are lost forever. Seasickness has become an epidemic. Bugle calls are ignored, meals are left untouched, men lay around as it were after a charge. It is a broken army for the time being, but ere long it will awake to new life and vigor. Only those who have survived the malady, move around and look after their unfortunate comrades, thus proving their true comradeship. The "First post" is sounded, and the hammocks are again swinging on the hooks, with their precious freight. Before "Last Post" and "Lights out" are sounded, the boys are again in dreamland, and their first day at sea ends.
Perhaps many times before "Reveille" sounds on the morning of the second day, some of the men have been up at the rail again. Whether that is the case or not, they make the effort to get up and out of the stuffy mess decks to fresh air above. The epidemic of seasickness is still rampant, consequently the day passes in a somewhat similar manner to its predecessor. But can one wonder at it, when the old ship swings to and fro on the rolling billows of the Australian Bight.