
France.12th June 1916.
My dear Mother,
The mail is suffering from a lot of vagaries lately.  I have had about 4 letters from you in a week, but as none of your letters had been coming along suppose these were they.  I also got some letters dated 1st May, but as I haven't had any mail yet for the 1st April, don't know where I am, and my correspondence has all gone to Billio.
Well we're out for a short rest again thank goodness.  I wrote you a short note from the trenches to keep the mail going but was too busy to say anything.  We had a pretty miserable time in - wet and cold and slush the whole time.  I've completely changed my opinion on this French weather.  I'm satisfied that the spell of fine weather we had was only out of the box, though it was beautiful while it lasted.  I couldn't find it in my heart to part with a pair of Ruby's sox as requested.  I was right out and as I very seldom have dry feet now, I hung on to them.  Tell her to try again.  As you know by now we are separated from the 19th Battalion - in fact have nothing whatever to do with it, so have seen nothing of young James.  I had several yarns to him on the Peninsular.  He's a fine Kid - One of the few who stuck it out.
Am glad Alan Gelling is in the Office.  Think it will suit him better.  I had a letter from him this mail.  He told me he went up to enlist but was turned down.  He ought to be satisfied now - Nobody can do more than try.
I'm pleased Anzac Day was kept up in the way it was.  It would have been out of place to have kept it up in accordance with the Meaghervellous persons idea.
Can't understand why they are going to hold back our mail for six weeks.  There's no occasion for it as far as I know as from all accounts you knew we had gone to France, almost as soon as we did.
Tell Ruby not to bother about putting envelopes and paper in her letters.  We can get plenty here in the Canteens and besides the envelopes are always closed with the heat.
We are going to have a bon time to-night (Fritz permitting).  It's some time now since our Section has all been
