 [Page 42] 
 Egypt, 18th February 1916. 
 My dear Mother, 
 Your two letters of the 1st and 9th January respectively both arrived together yesterday and I can tell you the Mail was much appreciated as this is getting very monotonous.  Also heard from Father same mail.  A Xmas Bulletin also came to hand but no other papers, perhaps they will turn up later.  Have not received any parcels since the big issue we got when we arrived at Tel-el-Kebir but I suppose the same thing will happen again, we will get them all at once.  Hope the cake will not lose weight in the meantime. 
 I am afraid this letter will be very short and uninteresting as there is absolutely no news from this part of the world.  Afraid I can't give you too many particulars re Dardanelles just yet, but hope to later on.  Besides I have to wait till I am in a good writing humor and I don't seem to be able to get into one out here.  It's a jolly hard thing to write about anyway.  So many incidents were crammed into a short space of time.  I will try and write some of them up one of these days and send them along.  They May be interesting to you.  They mostly seem a dream to me now. 
 Have had several letters from the boys at Ma'ade Camp but so far have had no chance of seeing them, though have visions of doing so before very long.  From all accounts they like the life and seem to be enjoying themselves. 
 Had a letter from Roy Clune, one of the Office Staff who was one of the Returned Soldiers some time ago.  He never had my luck, only being on the Peninsular a few days. 
 Was very sorry to hear of Harold Rose's death.  It was news to me.  I only saw him once on the Peninsular. He was looking pretty well then.  Broughlea must be rather a quiet place just at present.  Don't think it will be too long now before we all fill it up again. 
 Hope Billy's cigarettes arrive safely they will come in very handy.  They are hard to get here.  The Artillery should suit him. 
 Well I now this is a very dry letter but it can't be helped.  Hope Ruby is O.K. again.  I am still in the pink. 
 Love to all From Your loving Son Roy. 
 Received the P.C. from Ruby of the two boys.  We certainly are a good looking lot in uniform. 
