Sun. Apr. 15th 
 Mon. Ap. 16th 
 Today I packed up some souvenirs sent to ArThur. Had a good rehearsal tonight. Things going good.
Tues. Apr. 17. Got Letter from Aunt Nell.
Wed. Ap. 18th Our Concert came off at 7 p.m. The Mess Hut was packed about 600 or 700 there. The lady on the Farm lent Payney some clothes to wear in the Sketch; she her little girl Susan came to the Show. They laughed very much enjoyed themselves, although they wouldn't understand a word we said. The Anzac Concert Party were there said it was a very good show.


 Thurs. Ap. 19. Glory: Got 6 more Letters today. 1 each from Mother, France, Sam Ibbs, 3 from M.S. I'll be kept busy answering them now. Started one to B.E. Its very nice to get a Letter from Ibbsy, after such a long interval. Good news in the Papers.
Fri. Ap. 20. Finished my Letter to Lill Got a new Anzac from "Dados" in Albert.
Sat. 21. Went to see the Anzac show in Albert, but there were only 2 turns on, the rest being Pictures. Not much chop.
Sun. 22. Fine day. Plenty of planes about. Ted Grey returned from leave after having a good time in Blighty. Johnnie Moore went away today. Hock Douch went to C.C.S with appendicitis.
Mon. 23. Another fine day. A Taube came over just after Dinner 6 of our planes on their way back from Fritz's line met him. Goodbye Fritz
 We are trying to arrange a Concert for Anzac Day the 25th but the Transport are going out op the Line so our orchestra is very weak.


 Tues. 24th Major Bond sent in to know if we could put our Show on at Mametz Wood to the 15th Brigade; but things are very awkward at present.
Wed. Apr. 25th Anzac Day
 Fred Saunders sprained his Leg, while playing football, so was not able to go out with the Transport. Now we can put on our Show. Last night Maj. Clayton sent Eric Herford, Bill Bailey I out to Mametz to see Maj. Bond arrange for a Show. We are going there on Sat. night. 
 Sent parcel of souvenirs Home to Lill Our Show went off fairly well but not near so well as last Wed's Show. Commenced writing to M.S.
Thur. Apr. 26th Yesterday there were Sports held at most Camps Anzac Day was kept up in good style.
Friday 27. Cloudy cold wind blowing. Got another Glorious Letter from D.O.L. That Girl is a marvel. She?d cheer the heart of the Kaiser himself. Finished off my Letter to B.G. posted it.
 Football match between 
 Possibles ? nil Probables ? 9pts


 Sat. Apr. 28. Dodson, Bayliss Nash went away on Leave this morning, which makes me 8th on the List now. After Dinner we found that no wagon was obtainable to take us to Mametz; so rang up Major Bond who promised to send along some vehicles. About 3 p.m. Normy Adams, Jack Edgar Stan Wilson left, with our "Props" in a Tip dray. At 6 p.m. the remainder of the "N.B.s" left some in a Limber the others in a Maltese Cart, both from the 59th Batt. 
 The Y.M.C.A. Hut was crowded our Show went off tip-top. Maj. Bond greeted us on our arrival. Maj. Clayton Capt. Riley were also there. After the Show, Mr King of the Y.M.C.A. the Padre gave us a slap up Feed, Fried Sausages Bread Butter, Cakes Cocoa. After that Maj. Bond took us up to the officers? Mess produced some Fire Water. The officers of the 59th are a jolly decent crowd they gave us a good time. Plenty of Whisky actually Schweppes Soda. I'm glad to say that our Crowd played the Game arrived back Home at midnight quite alright.
Sun. Apr. 29th Glorious, sunshining day. Our crowd are football mad. They have played 2 or 3 games a day lately but have lost every one. Maggs, Wally Saunders, a no. of others are suffering from Injuries today our W.O. Roberts was admitted to Hospital with a sprained ankle.


 Monday Apr. 30th Commd Letter to M.S. Beautiful sunshining day. Plenty of planes about. After Tea we had a rehearsal to prepare for our Show at the Y.M.C.A. Hut in Albert. Staff Kitson returned from Blighty. He says he had a glorious time that he failed to notice any Food Shortage in England.
Tues. May 1st Typical May Day. Nice warm sunny. Our Show in Albert was almost a dud. First of all the Gas Pipe Burst set fire to the stage; then half way through the 1st half the lights went out we had to use candles. Eric Herford forgot his words in "Who killed Kaiser" I did the same. Payney Bill May were in good form Bill Gamble was quite brilliant. The 2nd Part went well the Sketch went screamingly . The Y.M.C.A. people gave us a Good Supper after the Show.
Wed. May 2nd Another glorious day. Our Tug o? War Team pulled against the 15th to see who should pull in the Div. Sports on Friday on Sat Bricky, Bill Williams I went into Albert after Tea. It was quite a treat to be among civilians again.
Thurs. May 3 Finished my letter to M.S. 
 This morning our figures for the Con Camp were incorrect, so we spent the morning fixing them up. After the 2 o'clock parade we got busy scrubbed our Hut out.


 Fri. May 4. It's about time another mail was in. After Dinner, Bill Williams, Nick Coxon I walked out to Mametz to the Div Sports. It was a very warm day I actually raised a sweat, the first one since I came back from the Line. There was big crowd there the events went off very well. "Billgy" May "Shag" Shearer came 2nd in the Stretcher Bearer's race, they should have got first, but failed to do some little item lost points. Our Q.M. McFadyon won the Officer's Race ? flying Tommy Ross Les Foote won the 3 legged Race. We came away at about 4, got a lift in a Motor Lorry part of the way, had a glass of Beer a good Bath when we arrived back at Bellvue Farm.
 .
 Sat. MAY 5. Capt. Riley fixed up my Tooth. Last night we had a meeting in the Mess Hut to decide about giving a Show at the Reinf. Camp. Fred Winter, Charley Hall Capt Marshall went on leave.
Sun. May 6. Glorious day. The Trees are bursting into bloom look very pretty. The news from then front continues good, but the slaughter must be terrible on both sides. After Tea Bill Williams I went for a stroll along the Becordel Road came across a big crowd of Reinf. On their way to the Front Line. They looked in the Pink of Condition.


 Mon. May 7. Last night we had quite settled down to Bunk when Sgt Thomson came sung out the names of 100 Bearers to be ready to move off at a moments notice my name was among ?em. It appears that the casualties among stretcher Bearers is very high we have to go out to relieve them. After Tea we had a run through our Programme for tomorrow night at the Reinf Camp.
Tues. May 8. Our Concert is knocked on the Head. The 15th F. Amb is coming to relieve us tonight our crowd are taking over the Main Advanced Dressing Stations.
 Later. Busy Day packing up handing over. Payney, Nick Coxon Jack Edgar I had a Farewell Gathering in the Mess Hut.
Wed. May 9. Got up bright early fell in at 8.30. Packed up fossicked around for Rations. Had Dinner at 11.30. Payney, Bricky I dined in the Canteen. Fell in at 12.30, boarded motor Lorries came out to this Main dressing Station, through Poziers Bapaume. The country looks much better than it did on my last visit as the grass has grown covered up the shell holes to a certain extent. We got a drink of Tea are to bivouac in the open for tonight move up to the Line tomorrow. There are plenty of planes about its good fun watching ?em.
 Glory Halleluyah! Got 3 Letters 2 from M.S. 1 from Nell Good old Blue Eyes. Your Letters bucked me up fine.


 Thur. May 10. Last night was quite exciting. We had quite settled down to sleep when bang! came about a dozen Fritz shells. Just got settled down again when the Serg. rushed in told us to put on our Gas Helmets as the wind was favourable for Fritz. I was sleeping between Bricky Howard Prescott. Bricky slept peacefully through it all. Prescott suffered from nightmare sung out in his sleep "Oh, this war, this awful war!" Altogether it was a most eventful night. 18 of our chaps, Billy May, Snowy Atherton Towney, Ross, Stan Wright among them went out to the A.D.S. about 8 o'clock. This morning we pitched Tents unloaded waggons. It is quite hot the crowd are getting quite tanned.
Fritz had a Balloon up soon sent a number of shells around our Camp. Several motor Lorries were coming along the road the way they broke the speed limit was real amusing. About 20 men got knocked we had a busy time for a few hours. A 2nd Division Transport sergeant was killed. Hippersly was at work in the Cookhouse when a lump of shrapnel came through hit him on the Leg. Three motor Amb. were smashed up had to be towed to the workshop. We fell in at 5 o'clock for Gas Helmet inspection after fooling around till nearly 8, we set off for the Line. Stan Wright, Billgy May party at the A.D.S. made us some cocoa which we greatly appreciated.