Sun. May 20 Snowy I shared a double Room. After a wash Brush up, we went for a stroll around the City. It was glorious to know that we were free, we wandered around till about midnight. Then it commenced to thunder lighten the Rain poured down. This made us think about Bed, but we found that it was too late to get a Bus or Taxi, just had to dodge back from from doorway to another. It was in the early hours of the morning that we arrived back at our Hotel. We soon turned in between the sheets were asleep in no time.
Monday May 21 Woke up by a bang on the door a voice informing us that it was "9 oclock" We hopped out of Bed opened the Door. The Girl asked us if we?d like Break in Bed. Of course we jumped at it. Went back to Bed had Bacon Eggs Coffee. Then we had a Bath. Got dressed went out. London is some Town alright. After wandering around for a couple of hours we went into a Place had Lunch. After Lunch I went to a Tailor got him to alter my tunic. A girl from Paddington was working in the shop, she had a great yarn with "Snowy" Atherton Returned to Shaftsbury had wash "brush up"
 After Tea sat gazing out of window for a time. Then we went to Palace Theatre saw Vanity Fair. A jolly fine Show. Nelson Keys, funny as a Circus.


 Tues. May 22. Had Break in Bed again. Got up about 9. Went to Whitehall saw them changing Guard. Life Guards the Blues. Great sight. Then went on to Buckingham saw them changing Guard there. It was wonderful. The men marched like machines. We also saw the men coming out after being decorated by the King. There was a big crowd as each man came away he was greeted with much applause. We then met Bunny Charley Whitaker. Visited Westminster Abbey. Saw the Tombs of Wellington, Nelson many other famous persons, also saw the Gun carriage on which the Iron Duke's body was conveyed. It is made of captured French Guns. Went into a restaurant had a great feed of Steak chipped potatoes. At night we went to see Chu Chin Chow. It was a great Show. Oscar Asche Lilly Brayton are as good as ever.
Wed. May 23 Spent a quiet day wandering around the City, Riding in Taxis Buses. The Girl Conductors look very sweet in their neat blue uniforms hats turned up at the side. Visited Madame Tussaud's. It was most interesting. The wax figures look almost life-like. Snowy I wandered into what we thought was a nice restaurant ? but it turned out to be vegetarian. We tried some nut pie raspberry pudding ? then we gave it up went to another place for a feed. In the afternoon we purchased Post Cards writing material went back to the Shaftesbury. Had an hours sleep, then we spent an hour in the Writing Room. Sent a few Post Cards wrote to Lill. What a wonderful difference it would make if only she were here. Gee! What a time we?d have.


 Thur. May 24th 5 years today Lill left England Father's Birthday Empire Day. Snowy I went to Southend. It was a Perfect Day. We arrived Southend about midday. Aunt Pudney was surprised to see me. We had a good Dinner there. Mr Pudney made us feel quite at Home. Olive is a very nice Girl. Mrs Pudney I adjourned to the sitting room, where we had a great old yarn about Lill. She showed me her photo Album, in which I saw Lill Absolom as a Kid. What a bonnie Kid she was too. Florrie is married to a sergeant in the Flying Corps. She is almost as good looking as her cousin. Snowy I went for a stroll around the Town. It was very quiet. Mrs P wanted us to stay overnight, but we couldn't spare the time. Went to a photographers to get my picture taken, but he was out.
Fri. May 25th Went to Southampton. Got there about 2 oclock. Aunt Nell was not a bit surprised to see me, as she said she had expected me so long. It is a very nice part of the suburb in which she lives a very pretty cottage Garden. I showed my collection of pictures She (like everyone else) quiet fell in Love with Lill; asked me how I managed to win such a nice little Wife ? but that is a mystery. I don't know myself. She must miss Uncle Stewart very much. I had a scrumptious Tea. Ate about 2 lbs of Lovely Home made Cake. Aunt Nell gave me what was left to bring away. Snowy Atherton soon made a mess of it ? ably assisted by C.W. Bunny. She was quite put out because I couldn't stay overnight, but Lord, what can a man do in 10 days?


 Saturday May 26 Got up about 8 went out quite early. Had a shave. Then I put my things together prepared to go to Stone. Bunny Snowy came down to Euston with me saw me on to the Train. Arrived Stafford 4 p.m. Caught Train to Stone at 4.50. Arrived Stone about 5.30. Saw Jem. Starkey Topper Wooley on Station. Didn't seem altered a bit. Went to Crown Anchor. It was great to be under the old Thatch one more. Looked into Unicorn Hotel. Saw Ernest Jackson had a great old yarn. He's got awfully fat. Just as left his shop met Mr Blakeman. He would have me return then there with him, so I went back to Shirleywich with him. Frank met us with the Float. He has grown into a big chap. Ruth Mrs B. very pleased to see me.
Mrs B looks quite an old Lady. The Shock of John's death must have affected her very much. Mr B. looks quite well. Much better than I expected. Ruth has grown into quite a woman. Jolly fine woman, too. John's wife looks very well. His son Alec is a bright bonnie kid. His Grandma Grandma think the world of him. They made quite fuss of me. Put me in such a lovely big room to sleep. There were all kinds of Girls nick nacks hanging around it made me feel quite Homesick. Felt lost without pyjamas. Slept soundly peacefully. Made me think quite a lot of M.S. Bless Her. Actually said my Prayers. First time for years.


 MondaySunday May 27. Glorious morning. In the Garden, a thrush was singing away merrily across the meadows came the call of the cuckoo. I looked out of the window. In the distance, the village Church bells were ringing all seemed good with the world. What a difference to Bullencourt After shaving ablutions I went down to Breakfast Bacon Eggs, nice Fresh Butter Gee! How I enjoyed it. After Break. went round the Farm with Mr Blakeman, Frank young Alec. My word he's a bonnie kid. 
 The crops are looking excellent. There is plenty of Food for the cows they look fat content. How I enjoyed my Dinner. Roast Beef, Potatoes, Cabbage, followed by Beastings Pudding. I almost felt ashamed of my appetite. After Dinner we adjourned to the Drawing Room where Ruth played, Jack's wife sang. Three kiddies came to Dinner. The elder girl was very pretty but she played the piano viley. I quite enjoyed that afternoon. After Tea I went to Church with Mrs Blakeman Ruth. We arrived late. It was a very nice service, the parson preached a good serMon. In his spare time he works on the Land. We had supper on our return. Then Mr B. I sat yarning for about an Hour. I went to Bed feeling at Peace with the world.
Monday May 28. After Breakfast I borrowed Frank's Bike went to see Lizzie Rowley, who lives about a mile away from Ruth's. It was great to ride along the peaceful country roads, with the birds singing merrily the sun shining; very pleasant to talk to people in good old English after being in France Egypt for so many months.


 Mon. May 28 (cont) Lizzie was washing when I arrived. What a great old yarn we had about old times. I stayed had Dinner, Rabbit Pie, which was very nice indeed. Got punctured a chap next door, very kindly repaired it for me. After Dinner I went on to Stone. Lizzie gave me a big bunch of Lilacs to put on Father's Grave. The Cemetery was looking very nice, plenty of flowers the green grass neat. Father's grave I found quite easily. It looks well evidently receives regular attention. Went on to Stone. Called in had a yarn with Annie Shardlow. She told me some great yarns about Father. Went to Unicorn Hotel. Had tea there. Then I went down to Ern Harveys, but he was out. Called in "Black Horse". Saw Mr Mrs Bloom. Mr B is getting quite an old man. Met Ernest Jackson Polly Warren. Stopped had a great old yarn. Slept at Polly Warren's.
Tues. May 29 Got up about 9. Alice James got my Breakfast. Went over to Adie's after Break. bought some Post Cards sent one to Lill. Met Mr Pyatt, Tommy Adie, Mr Gilbert, Redman. Had great old yarn. All asked about Mother, France. Cis asked to be kindly remembered to them. Must tell ?em when I write. Saw Mr Mrs Lawley, Mr Mrs Shaw. Met Pat Astbury in street promised to go to tea ? but missed. Met Jack Turner, "Tugger" Key a whole crowd of people. Jack took me down to "the Swan" where I met another crowd I knew. Mrs Gorman, Snape all the "elite" of Abbey Court . They flung their arms round my neck kissed me before I could get away. Met Ern Harvey after Tea. We had a very enjoyable time together. Had a sing song at "The Alma". I went home with him afterwards slept there.


 Friday June 1st  Went the Milk round with Anvil. Saw quite a lot of folks who knew me. Went to Pat Astbury's. Had a great old yarn with her. She made me stay have some Dinner. Then she sewed some buttons on my pants. Paid a visit to Mrs Morris. She made a great fuss of me gave me a Box of Cigarettes before leaving. Met Freddy down the Town. He is just the same as ever. Met Freakley Mr Swift. They don't seem to be altered much.
Saturday June 2