Wed. May 16 Slept in till about 10. Nigger Bowden brought in Breakfast to Bed. Then I rolled over had another sleep. Got up about 11.30 had a wash, just in time for Dinner. Spent the afternoon quietly. Got a new pair of Australian Boots from the Q.M.Store; also a Pipe. Now I can enjoy a smoke of Mothers Tobacco. There is a Canteen near here so we purchased some salmon Tinned Sausages Biscuits had quite a Banquet at Tea Time. After Tea it commenced to Rain our Tent leaked in many places which caused a little bit of excitement Commenced a Letter to M.S.
Thur. May 17. Rain cleared off this morning. Kept Busy putting down duckboards. Glory! Brian Aspinall informed us that 5 are going on leave this week. Bluey Riley getting wounded makes me fifth on the List. The rest of the Bearers are going out to the Line tomorrow, so we are wondering if the Col. will let us go. Snowy Atherton is coming with me which is one jolly good job.
Fri. May 18 The Bearers went out to the Line again today. We went over to Ordnance were issued with new uniforms Hats. After Dinner we buried one poor devil of the 3rd London who was gassed. Lord, it's a horrible death. Before going to Bunk we had a hot Bath put on a clean change of underclothing.
 Sat. May 19 After Break. we put all our things ready for the move off. Brian Aspinall gave us our warrants about 12 we buzzed off to Bapaume station in a motor Amb. It was a glorious day we were all in high spirits. Arrived Bapaume station about 12.30 went to R.T.O's office to get our warrants examined. While waiting for the Train I met Wally Hind, who was also going on Leave to Blighty. He has 2 pips up now, is o/c Trench Mortar Batteries. We left Bapaume about 3.30 in cattle trucks. It was a great trip, everybody was in such high spirits. We changed Trains at Candas, where the French take over the railway from the British. Arrived Boulogne about 11.30 Sunday morning. From the Train we marched to Coppin's Rest Camp. Here we had some refreshments, bought from the Canteen a wash Brush up. 
At 3.15 we marched down to the Boat. She sailed at 4.30. The Channel was quite calm, we were well guarded by a number of destroyers. On the way over we had some meat pies Tea down at the Canteen. Arrived in Folkestone a bit after 6. It was just glorious being in England again after having been away so many years. People evidently knew ours was the Leave Train, as all along the route to London they waved their hand Kefs. Arrived in London about 9. Here the "Dinkum Anzacs" from Horseferry Road met us, but Snowy the rest of our party preferred to go on our own. On arrival at H.Q. they paid us straightaway stamped our warrants. Then we went to the Shaftesbury Hotel booked a Room.