Sun. May 13 (cont) I was odd man out. We drew to see who should take out the first patient, Maggs, Bowden, Stan Wright Bricky Lew Ballard drew No 1. Just as they moved off a shell burst almost on top of ?em I had to take Magg's place as he got a bad dose of shell shock. We arrived safely at the relay. On our way back through the sap, Fritz set an aeroplane alight with a shell. It lit the place up as light as day. A good number of men were about Fritz peppered them hot strong with shrapnel H.E. None of our party were hit, but we were mighty glad to get back to our dug-out. Joy Koller, B.W. Howard. Stan Wright Archie Deed were in the dug-out with us. We were kept going for a time, then things slackened down a bit. It was impossible to get any rest, as our dug-out was small, the shells kicked up such a deuce of a row, so we had a feed.
Towards daylight the wounded began to arrive we were kept going the whole time. Fritz kept up a terrific barrage it was really marvellous that none of us got hit. Stan Wright got hit in the arm with a piece of shrapnel. We took his tunic off to examine him. His tunic shirt were torn on his arm was a little scratch. Shag Shearer, Armstrong, Bluey Stanton Jack Bain were No. 3 squad. They were in another dug-out with Bob Roberts. Fritz kept up his Barrage all day the place was a perfect Hell; but as there was no shelter for the poor devils who got wounded, we had to carry them through trust to Luck. We always returned along the sap, but it was impossible to carry a stretcher through, as it was too narrow. During the afternoon 3 poor devils who were working in the sap were blown to pieces. From the end of the sap to our dug-out was about 100 yds. we used to cover it in about 9.3/5
 SunMon. May 14th During one of the Fritzs Barrages Stan Wright about 6 others failed to get through. After waiting about 3 hours, we almost decided to go search for them, when they turned up. It was a great relief to see them. The 15th came relieved us about 7 oclock never was a body of men more welcome. We arrived safely back at the A.C.S. in the sunken Road, where we found that instead of having a spell, we had to carry through to the Waggon loading Post. 
There were a great many wounded coming through we were kept busy. About 9 oclock, 4 g.s. waggons came along the Sunken Road commenced to unload Gas Cylinders. Fritz was sending over a barrage of H.E shrapnel. Over in the Gully, near the village of Noreuil our Batteries were banging away Fritz couldn't get ?em. One of the Gas Waggons was standing just outside the A.C.S. About 9 a shell landed right behind one of the Horses. It didn't explode we all thought it was a dud; till somebody shouted out "Gas". Then it was a rush to get our Gas Helmets on. Maj Bond kept his head well. There were a good number of wounded lying about these had to fixed up with Helmets. The Heads reckon that about 5 thousand Gas shells came over during the night.