  
 [Newspaper clippings] 
 German Escapees Michael Segfried, a German, made his escape from the Holdsworth Concentration Camp yesterday afternoon.  The police description of the missing man is 22 years of age, 5ft.8in in height, fair hair, fresh complexion, clean shaven.  He is dressed in grey trousers and a blue jersey and cap. And is thought to have with him a blue suit with a fine white stripe. 
 January 14 1919. 
 German Escapee Killed Jumped from Mail Train Lithgow Saturday 
 The fates meted out short shrift to Herman Alfred Fisher, about 26 years of age.  He was an inmate of Holdsworth Concentration Camp, but escaped on October 16.  He was apprehended at Orange, and was returning by the Orange mail train.  This morning, when nearing Blackheath, he asked his guard, Private J. Brown for permission to go to the lavatory.  Brown removed the handcuffs and let Fisher in.  He saw him three miles further on at Medlow Bath, but immediately on leaving Medlow Fisher evidently, attempted to escape as a minute later Brown noticed his absence. 
 On fettlers starting to work at sunrise, they discovered his mangled body on the railway  Outgoing trains had cut him to pieces.  He seems to have fallen out just as the up train was arriving at Medlow. 
 Sunday Times, December II 17 
 German Escapees Before Military Court, Darlinghurst Case 
 Three German internees appeared before a military court at the Victoria Barracks to-day to answer various charges.  They were Edward Carre, Carl Seeman, and Louis Becker. 
 Colonel V. le Gay Brereton was president of the court, and the members were Major Davey and Captain S Spain. 
 Carre and Seeman were charged with escaping from the Darlinghurst detention barracks on January 2. 
 Becker, a young man well over 6ft, in height and who chatted and smiled with his "friend" while the proceedings progressed, was charged with escaping from the Concentration Camp at Holdsworthy on December 30, 1918, and with stealing two rings, the property of another internee, Alfred William Terris, on December 28, 1918, or alternatively with having them in his possession, knowing them to be stolen. 
 The cases against Becker were taken first.  He pleaded guilty to escaping, but said that he was not guilty of theft. 
 Owed Money to Other Internees Becker, on his oath, said the he did not steal the rings. 
 Major Bowie Wilson:  You owe money to other internees?  Yes; about 50. And you escaped so that you would not have to pay? - Maybe so. Did you tell anyone you did? - Yes. 
 Under further cross-examination Becker said that he was employed at the hospital camp.  He made a few shillings by purchasing cigars and tobacco from the soldiers and retailing them to other internees at a small profit. Major Wilson:  You were running a cigar and tobacco business in the camp?  Hardly that:  I was making only a few shillings out of it - about 2s on each box.  Becker added that on one occasion Terris had said to him that he could get a couple of men to swear anything he liked for him. 
 Afraid to go back The court, after a short retirement in regard to the theft charge, resumed. On the charge of escaping Becker said he had nothing to say. It was stated that a guard saw Becker walking along a road near the camp, and as he did not have a pass he was arrested.  Becker said then that he was afraid to return to the camp, as he owed 50 to the other internees. Other evidence shoed that Beck had been interned four years and two months. The court ordered the return of the rings toTerris. The findings of the court were sent to the confirming authority. The case against Carre was then taken.  He said that he did not desire anyone to assist him. When the charge was read to him Carre said:  "I plead guilty," and added:  "I am let out of my cell by another prisoner of war Shellock, with a key made of hoopiron..  He opened my cell and Seeman's cell.  He said he had looked into the matter, and that the door of the observation wing was not locked.  We three went down into the yard.  Shellock went away, and came back with Reiser and some blankets.  We went to the tower. Shellock went first.  He took the blankets and made some ropes, and pulled us up.  Shellock then left, and we went, too." 
 Had Escaped Previously A statement showed that when the military police were interviewing Seeman after arrest Carre said, "The game is up - what is the use of telling a pack of lies?" Carre's record sheet disclosed that he had escaped twice before, and had also been guilty of other offences, including stealing. Seeman also pleaded guilty to a charge of escaping.  He is a lightly-built, flaxen-haired youth of short stature, and is credited with remarkable strength.  He availed himself of the services of an interpreter. Seeman's statement to the court was similar to that of Carre.  He said that when Shellock aroused him in his cell he added.  "Hurry up, make haste, we have no time to lose." Seeman's record showed that he had escaped once previously, and that he had been convicted of stealing Government property. The sentences of the court, both in regard to Carre and Seeman, were sent to the confirming Authority. 