Fremantle is a very busy town but dirty with narrow streets, boasting of a tramway system (electric) like the Pitt St system. Perth is a few miles away by rail on Swan River which is much like Sydney Harbour in Places. The city itself is small but fairly busy can boast of, in Kings Gardens, a beautiful playground. 
Oct 14 That afternoon we left Fremantle watched Australian shores sink under the horizon a day or two after we entered then tropics. The weather was fine but very hot most men sleeping on deck. On 16th a concert was given for our benefit by the passengers on the 19th we crossed the Equator with usual ceremonies. Oct 19 The ceremony is traditional in the British navy. "Neptune" comes on board after ridiculous carryings on as emptying each person who hasn't previously crossed into a bath, certifies as to his enrolment in the Log of Nep. 

Oct 21 We were expected to reach Colombo on Oct 21st that morning I found the horizon dotted with black specks which on approach proved to be native boats or cadamarangs by 7 o'clock we passed through the breakwater into Colombo Harbour. Colombo is a typical Indian city. All boats anchored out from shore there being no wharves passengers are conveyed to shore by tenders. The harbour swarms with small boats, motor otherwise, the police boat being very prominent. No sooner the anchor was down than the boat becomes the centre of attraction. Natives swarm over the side to offer their wares to exchange their money as curios for many more times their worth. The coal barge comes alongside with a crew of dozens of natives hand loading with bags, soon have their cargo on board. Then the merchandise, mostly tea comes on board in the same way. 
The harbour is beautiful sheltered by a fine breakwater has for a land mark a huge lighthouse of high power. The City is on the right to the left is a stretch of beach fringed with palm trees. Off the beach is the wreck of the P O Steamer "Nubia" which ran aground. The Town is fine, boasting of a tramway system some fine gardens. Rickshaws are in great prominence are very cheap. A very interesting journey is to the Cinnamon Gardens back through the Esplanade. En route you pass through the native Malay quarters which are very filthy. Of Mosques there are many a Banyan tree covering  acre is a good sight. In the Gardens, Colombo Lake is the best sight beautiful it is when the shores are dotted with native women of high caste in gorgeous coloured silk gowns.