The Turks reply with the Beachy Bill battery amp 75's a couple went appreciably close to the cruisers. Late in the after noon a couple of 8.2" high explosive shells burst in the gully, coming from Chanak. Now our ?plane is up directing the firing but clouds of smoke forming round it shows that it is the object of the Turks fire. A Taube flew over this afternoon hailed down some machine gun's bullets, bombs darts but as far as I can see there is no one hurt. Our guns make closer shots than those of the enemy at the planes.
Dec 11th Last night I among others was hauled out of bed told to pack up ready to leave this position not having to come back. Everything packed I was given in charge of one of eight mule carts to move some of the gear of the unit. Everything seems to have been packed up now I remember that several guns went down the road this afternoon I ask are we evacuating Anzac. Half way along the beach my cart capsized for a time I thought that the native driver had been killed. However the others went on after a few hours waiting on the beach was assisted up to the pier with my charge.
Here everything points to a big movement. Gear is packed in great heaps apparently ready for loading on to the barges few men guns are already embarking. The night is typical shells bombs flares with machine gun rifle fire being very pronounced. This morning we returned to Victoria Gully in the afternoon went to the 6th trenches met Harry who showed me through the trenches. I had a look at those opposite with a periscope Harry is also leaving to night, in fact the whole 2nd Bgde the prevailing opinion is that we are going to make a fresh landing. But why send a brigade only  strength why our ambulance which is only  strength. In my mind the position of Anzac is being evacuated, hardly credible now I see the significance of the numerous graveyards round about.
Dec 12th Last night I was again on duty at the pier hundreds of men have embarked with their baggage guns Harry I included are now on our way to Lemnos on the "Princess Ena" I worked as I have never worked before loading stuff on to the barge then my idea became a conviction. Everything worked without a hitch now Lemnos harbour is in sight again. The weather all the time I was on Anzac has been beautiful +