June 23rd This morning I went on a working party to the A.D.S. about  of a mile behind the line. The trenches are over a hill behind which the wagons etc can come right up to the communication trenches with perfect safety. The hill is heavily wooded with oaks elms affords great cover. Most sumptuous tea at Romani. Last night there was a gas attack along the line the flares were sent up gongs bells rung as alarm. So far I havn't heard of any casualties. The guns here are most cleverly concealed one over the road, a 12" howitzer is under a house made of canvas another in a stable of the same material. The guns are on railway trucks can be moved in 20 minutes.
June 25th Visit Armentieres which is almost deserted even though larger than any other place I have been in. It is very close to the line bears many marks of fighting in the early days as well as of German shells. We saw a couple of shells burst, which were most remarkable. They seem to have burst several times cast a shower of something like molten lead. They were lacrymatory shells according to
some persons.
July 1st The preparations for the long looked for offensive are complete the enemy trenches are daily subjected to a heavy bombardment if the weather permits a gas attacks. The 12" howitzer has opened the Germans have replied but without any serious damage. A rumour has come to hand that the British have advanced some distance down the line.

July 2nd Confirmation of above rumour. Artillery continues active the enemy have used gas.
July 6th Still things are very active it is said that within 14 days that the offensive in this quarter is to begin. To-night "Bertha" opened up again the Germans vigorously replied with the result of four casualties one being a member of A section ? Bull ? now dead. I one of a stretcher party but had no case.
July 10th We are ready to move again a big one too. I think there are vague rumours of us going to the Somme I feel sure that we are moving some distance. Artillery etc are all on the road entraining. In Ballieu yesterday had another good meal a persons house. The son of the family prisoner in Germany since first week of Verdun attack.