
Sunday 18 June 191610 Planes passed over our Camp on their way to Al-Arish this morning at 7-10.  They will have to fly about 80 miles before reaching the scene of Operations.T. Reed went to Kantara for Col. Shirts.  There are more men being sent to day to Signaling School for instruction.Compusory  Church Parade tonight at 6-15 p.m. conducted by Pardre Terce.Received 2 letters from Home dated 7th & 13th May, also Queens lancet with account of Anzac Day.
Monday 19 June 1916Muster Parade this morning when the Brig. gave an address to the men.  He leaves today for England to attend Conference on Policital matters.  He told us that he was a "Rough General" & then gave a windy speech about Fighting apologizing for leaving the Brigade for 6 weeks to the tender mercies of the Lieut. Col. of the 12th Regiment (Col. Rollston).  He reminds me very much of a Country Publican, but as for anything else well He is a First.Capt. Ryrie another unique specimen goes with the Gen.  An Orderly Officer, Capt. Cross & other Officers off to Cairo tonight.
Tuesday 20 June 1916Examination of Ammunition to-day.All Officers met the new Brig. this morning (Col. Rollston) who gave them some plain talk on military matters.I left for Cairo by 7.30 p.m. Train arriving there at 12-15 midnight.  Stayed at the New Khedival Hotel.  This Hotel is feeling the pinch with the rest of the large accomodation Houses in Cairo, owing to the Troops leaving for France & elsewhere.  Only those who have Business of importance are allowed in Cairo.
Wednesday 21 June 1916Went to Cooks for Clothing etc. for Col. Fuller, & spent the remainder of the Day Buying up stuff & arranging for conveying it to Kantara.Went to picture Show at night - stayed at Khevieval Hotel tonight.Splendid report of the recent airoplane Raid at Al-Arish by our men last Sunday.  8 Enemies machines were Blown up & a number of men killed.  Our men showed particular Bravery & only one was captured, & two machines were (Blown up) by our men to save falling into Turks hands.  3 Air men returned on one machine which is a marvelous piece of work.
