  
 Thursday 25 May 1916 Packing up all morning. Camels arrived at 5 p.m. to convey all Regimental Kit, etc. to Rail Head.  The convoy of 60 Camels under the supervision of Major Bruxner (who is 2nd in Command) unloaded & camped in readiness to entrain at 5-15 a.m. next morning. Had Tea with Capt. Chapman of the 7th.  Lieu. Farquair is in charge of Details of the 6th at Rail Head. We are being relieved by the 1st L.H. Brigade under General Cox.  The Regiment is to go by road to Hill 70 - & leaves at 3 a.m. tomorrow morning. 
 Friday 26 May 1916 Loaded train with the Regiment's Gear, etc. & left with Major Bruxner for Hill 70 at 5-15 a.m. arriving there 7-15 a.m., unloaded waggons at Camp at 9 a.m.  The Regiment under Col. Fuller left Romani at 3 a.m. & arrived in Camp at 10 a.m. Officers & men were allotted Tents & all day was spent in fixing the Food & Forage & Water supply.  The Water is pumped from Kantara to Hill 70 through pipes, & all feed is brought by a light Railway to the different Camps in route. The Division H. Quarters of the [See below for remainder of paragraph.] Saturday 27 May 1916 Arranging Camp & Horse Lines generally cleaning up.  A large consignment of Gifts from Aus. under the supervision of Mr. Larcombe (in Charge) for 5th, 6th & 7th Regiments to hand. Went into Cantara (riding) to get Mess Stuff, had a swim in Canal. Heard a rumour that our Division was to leave Egypt very shortly for France.  Major White left again for Cairo, will be absent for some time.  Lieu. Cunningham left also for Cairo to enter School of Instruction.  Lieu. Hogue to return to duty as Orderly to the Brig. 
 [Remainder of paragraph from above.] Anzac Mounted Division is centred at Hill 40 about 3 miles from Hill 70 on the way to the Canal.  Large Mess & Horse Sheds are being erected at both places besides many other permanent improvements.  A Metal Road run out from Kantara to Hill 70 besides 2 light lines & one Heavy Rail.  The 1st, 2nd & 3rd Regiments have left for the outposts at Romani & Dueidar relieving the 5th, 6th & 7th who fall back to rest.  The rations here at Hill 70 are very Good, besides, Canteens run by the Expeditionary Force Coy. in England cater for all & sundry.  The Stuff retailed by these Canteens are first Class & the variety is large. 
