
were conspicuous by their absence, & month after month was allowed to slip by before help of a pratical nature was forthcoming.  The Enemy was given ample time to strengthen His defences, & each month the price of success rose Higher & Higher.After the disappointment at Suvla Bay the Government was unable to decide whether to press forward, or hold on or evacuate.  The stormy season began in October.  The Austro German Army was advancing through Serbia & communications between Berlin &  Constantinople were certain to be opened before Xmas.  It has never been suggested for a moment that the Navy had failed in any way to assist the landing & holding on of the Peninsular, in fact their work will stand out as a most Brilliant achievement, yet someone or somebody was the cause of the miserable failure.  Some said Churchill, some said the War Office, but those able to judge imparcially place almost the entire responsibility upon the British Cabinet &  Prime Minister.  The Loss were very Heavy, the Death roll being considerably over 25,000.  The Losses of in Ships were more serious, no less than 5 British &  2 French Battleships were either sunk or run ashore to escape sinking.  A Large number of other craft, Transports, destroyers, submarines & mine sweepers were also sent to the bottom.  Can it be wondered at that the Empire was quite ready for the evacuation.  People made up their minds that a withdrawal was evitable, but could only be effected at a tremendous loss of Life & material.  When Suvla-Anzac- &Helles- were evacuated with little or no loss, it did not occur to us perhaps that if the Turks let us go without a stubborn fight it was because they were themselves too weak & too discouraged by the extreme conditions prevailing to show fight or resistance.  Had we had the wholehearted support of the British Cabinet, & received even at that late hour suitable Guns & reinforcements, we would have overwhelmed the Turks & gained a sweeping victory.  The Gallipoli expedition was one of the greatest in the annals of British History;  one of the most daring, one in which victory during the earlier stage would have ensured most far reaching results.  But it was not properly begun or supported,
