
Sunday 24 December 1916Official news through that the Cavalary surrounded & captured 1100 prisoners & much loot.  This happened at Magdhaba south of Al Arish.  70 of our men were killed & wounded.Lieu. Hardy & Capt. Thompson over from Mageriba to see Colonel.Staff Captain Britton over to see Col. this afternoon.It looks very like as though the 2nd L.H. Brigade has been deliberately set back by Division owing to Personal Enemity.
El-Magdhaba.
Monday 25 December 1916Brigade & each Regiment passed through the Telephone the usual Compliments.  The day was passed by the Officers & Men in eating, Drinking & being Merry.Major Wright rode over from Gamel to see the Col., & Lieu. Britton spent the day here also.Billy Can received from a Miss Chisholm, Gladswood, Narellan, N.S.W.  The contents were first Class, & showed careful selection.  No one here could possibly imagine that there was a War on to-day, as everybody just refused to take things seriously, & just may the most of what could easily have proved to be an unpleasant experience.
Tuesday 26 December 1916After yesterday's exciting time we did very little but rest.Heavy clouds worked up & during the night broke wetting the whole camp.  The weather is quite cold with every appearance of more rain.The 5th & 6th Regiments have been holding sports meetings & now the Brigade wants to have a combined meeting on New Year's Day.  Capt. Close went over to a meeting to-day, but the 6th Reg. had to withdraw owing to
Wednesday 27 December 1916Official news through re the Magdhaba Fight.  5 killed, 7 wounded Officers, 27 men killed & 140 wounded.  They left El Arish at night & made the attack next day before night.  The Troops consisted of 1st, 3rd Brigade & New Zealanders also the Camel Corps.  The Desert Column Commander ordered the place to be taken at all costs & after some delay the attack was made at points of the Bayonet.  Turkish wounded were brought to Al Arish & taken away by Boat.  2 Kruppe Guns & 4 Mountain Guns were captured & the Turks were in cement  trenches.
