several batteries quite close and Fritz keeps on sending shells over in search of ?em. A big crowd of Inf. were passing, and it was marvellous that no one was hit. Just before we left McCormacks a "dud landed almost in Dodde's and Jim Aldridge's dug-out and gave them a bit of a shock. Serg. Roberts is in our dug-out and while we were collecting stretchers and blankets from the 14th he lit a fire and made some tea, and also managed to find a primus stove, which came in very handy. The "Long looked for stunt" is expected to come off tomorrow, that is why we are getting as many blankets and stretchers as possible. There were about 30 of our balloons up this evening and the ?planes almost darkened the sky at times. Fritz had a couple of "sausages" up, but very soon hauled ?em down when our ?planes appeared. This is a snug little dug-out and we have just finished a feed and had a drink of tea, which was glorious. Now we are sitting back and having a yarn and smoke. We have a big Infantryman in our squad named Hargrove, 59th Batt. in place of "Snowy" Atherton. It is an awfully long time since we got any mail, and we are wondering when some will appear. We were mighty short of paper to start our fire, so I had to turn out my pockets and found 2 of Frances? letters, but I'm sure she wont mind them being put to such good use. Yesterday a Captain walked past a gun and got his leg blown off. He died just as he reached our A.D.S. Every time we go along the road we see new graves. It is marvellous that there are so few killed considering Fritz sends over so much stuff. At times the air seems to fairly churn, owing to so many shells passing at once. Things are very lively and the cases come through almost too quick to handle. B. Sec. are working like tyrants a great many have broken down and only about half of us are left. We were very busy all night. A party of 60th Batt. men relieved the 59th as S.P's, but after struggling out here in the dark, with full pack up, they were dead beat and were almost useless, but they did their best and no one can do more than that.