Wed. November 1st
This morning about 2 a.m. one of the 60th men arrived and informed us that he had 2 stretcher cases some distance away, but they couldn't get along any further as they were all dead beat, 2 squads of us went along with him and found them about a mile back dogged in the mud. None of them had slings and the poor patients must have had a very rough time, especially as one of them had a smashed thigh. We got them through to MacCormacks, and handed them over to the 14th Chaps. We made a cup of tea and had a snack of B.B. B. "Billsy found a tin of "Ideal Milk" which made almost a banquet of it. Then things began to "hum" Fritz sent over his H.E. and shrapnel very thick and the wounded were arriving in a constant stream. There is a clump of trees near our dug-outs, right alongside the Road, and Fritz bombarded it night and day. Billsy and I were standing quite outside our dug-out when a shell exploded near Captain Wooster's Dug out. After the smoke cleared away we saw a horse and man lying in the road. We grabbed a stretcher and went along. The horses head was practically blown off and the poor chap had a great hole in his neck, under the ear. We knew his case was hopeless so went up the bill a bit, where a machine gunner was lying. He was badly wounded in the leg and shoulder. A Sergeant went over to give him a hand and was blown to pieces. We patched up the Mch. Gunner with the assistance of a R.A.M.C. Chap (who was quite as good as M.D.) and carried him along to McCormacks. We also took in Capt. Fanning 56th Batt. who was badly smashed up, but quite cheerful. It was quite the most exciting day we have had, and everyone is knocked up. Billsy May, Stan Wright, Hangrove (56) and myself worked together all the time. The 14th relieved us about 3 p.m. and we were jolly glad to see ?em. We got back to Green Dump at about 5.30 and had a feed of stew and tea, which went down great. Jack Keen had a fire going and after our issue of rum and a smoke we "turned in".