Saturday 4th 
It was a fine morning and the going was fairly good. The 2 extra men makes all the difference. We got back to our dug-out and laid down for another hour, then we had a snack of B.B.B. Alex gave me a tin of hot "Maconochies" which was quite a luxury. We took the last case away from Goose Alley Capt Phillips, 28th Bn. who was short through the leg by a sniper. Our squad also brought in the first case from Nth. Rd. R.A.P. the chap whose revolver I got. We made our way back to Greens Dump through High Wood where we saw an enormous mine crator There were legs and arms and other bits of Fritz all over the place. It certainly was some hole. We also saw a number of big German Guns, which they had left behind in their hurry to get away. We got back to our B.A.D.S. where we got a clean shirt and pair of socks. Then we went to our dug-out and changed our shirts, which walked away as soon as we put ?em down. After a feed of stew and some hot tea we returned between our blankets. The 14th and 18th are well away and so are our advanced party, but the poor old bearers have got to hang on till the 5th F. arrive.
Sunday 5th
Yesterday when the 6th relieved us at Goose Alley we gave a hearty sheer, as we thought we had done with The Somme, but here we are back again at Runners Posts 8 stretcher squads in charge of Sg. Thomson. They say our lads have gone "over" and gained their objective so we are looking forward to a lively time. It was very cold, an icy wind was blowing and if we had not been able to light a fire some of us would have died from cold. It is some time since we had a decent feed and many of us cannot look a tin of corned beef in the face. One good thing, the wind dried up the mud a bit and made it better for working, and walking along. The sledges did great work but it's jolly had work chasing ?em up. We tied our slings to the sledge, so that we could attend to the patient, and also assist over the bad places. Sometimes all the sledges were in use, then we had to carry in the usual manner. MacD. and I worked with Nugget Bennett, Alec, "Rass" and Les Townsend a good team. The wounded arrived in a constant stream and we were kept going the whole night, just as hard as we could go. The 6th F.Amb. were running the A.D.S. and their cooks kept an unlimited supply of tea and cocoa made, so we had a drink each trip we made, which was a great help. A no. of German wounded passed through our hands, who of course got treated just the same as our own chaps. No matter how badly a man was wounded, if only he could get a cigarette he was happy. Mac I had just returned from taking in some walking patients, when we saw a shell burst in a gun pit about 60 yds. away from our dug-out, and a No. of bodies shot into the air. A stretcher party brought 2 of the poor fellows to our aid Post. One chap had his leg blown off and another chap was simply riddled with