shrapnel. Serg. Thomson fixed him up and Jack Keen and I bandaged up the poor devil who lost the leg. He died soon after arriving at the A.D.S. The shell killed 3 men and wounded 2 so did some damage. One poor little chap of a German passed through. He only looked about 15 and his steel helmet seemed to be almost too heavy for his neck to support. The Huns must be getting might short of "power feed" A No. of German wounded were lying about, and it was fine to see the way our chaps treated "em. A German Officer went through with a wounded hand and he seemed mighty interested in our guns. Good Lord one can't move for Guns. Its one constant boom all day, and night never stopping. "Thommie" kept a fire burning all night and also made us cocoa and cooked some corned beef, so we did fairly well. Just after midnight it commenced to rain and made the tracks very slippery again. 
Monday 6th 
Mac I were taking a case in on the sledge when I lost my footing and was dragged through the mud for about 20 yds. which made Mac Smile. An Engineer Officer wandered into our dugout during the night. He was almost exhausted with the cold and mud and greatly appreciated our fire. He passed his water bottle round, which contained rum, also passed a tin of Egyptian Cigs. along, so he made himself a welcome guest. The cases kept on arriving and we were on the move all night. Daylight was never more welcome, as it was very rough, picking our way along in the dark. The 5th F.Amb. were to have relieved us yesterday but have not arrived yet. The poor old 8th are all day beat but continue with their good work. We struggled on till mid-day, when the 5th came along and relieved us. Went back to the A.D.S. where the Q.M. of the 6th gave us a stiff nip of rum, 6 of us brought in our last patient. Jack, Jim Eldridge a Mch.Gun Officer, 2 inf. men and myself. After that we returned to our dugout at Greens Dump, where Capt. Woods told us to get a drink of tea and our Rum issue and get between our blankets as there were no rations and our offices had all gone away and he didn't know where to. We took his advice and turned in and were soon fast asleep.
Tuesday 7th 
Turned out about 7. Had a snack of B.B. B. and a drink of Tea and fell in. Never did the 8th present such a spectacle. Clothes in tatten, unwashed, unshaved (for a week) sandbags for puttees and greatcoats cut off at the pockets. About 30 of our men have been evacuated, so the poor old 8th are in a bad way. All our officers have bolted away for their lives and left us in charge of 3 strangers who seem very decent chaps. We paddled off through the mud and eventually arrived at a Rest Camp about 6 miles away from Greens Dump, near Fricourt. The 14th and 15th Nurses seem are running it, and the 15th bearers are also here. It was a treat to get under cover again, out of the rain. They stuck 30 of us in a big tent, also issued us with Cigs, and dry socks. Then we had some tucker B.B. B. and hot coffee, which was great. They gave us stew and coffee for Tea and after Tea, another issue of rum, which was badly needed. On Monday a shell burst outside our cookhouse and wounded one of the 6th. They also lost 6 men at "the crest" just after relieving us, and lost 2 more last night so we must consider ourselves phenomenally lucky.