the day before had counted their duty dearer than life itself, and a little further we came to the melancholy assembling place for such burdens, where many still forms lay, while the graves were being dug. A padre was in attendance waiting to perform the Service. So, on this sacred soil, over which perhaps the feet of the Lord himself had wandered, these gallant men are laid to rest. Many quiet graves, some nameless, are scattered all over Egypt and Palestine.
Just here, too, stand the ancient ruins of the Khan el Ahmar, the Caravansary of Red Stones. Then a few moments brought us onto the magnificent old Roman Road leading to Jericho. About an hour and a half or two hours journey and we camped for dinner. The ground all alongside the road is pitted with great shell holes from our guns. Three bridges had been destroyed by the Turks in their retreat but they were no hindrance to the traffic. The spots were ill chosen. The Wadis which the bridges crossed being easily negotiable with very little effort. 
In the afternoon I took a stroll up onto the hill in front of us that the Turks had occupied the night before. All these hills are wonderful natural strongholds, and it is marvellous how they were driven out of them so soon. The side of this hill was strewn with shrapnel nearly as thickly as it was with stones. When we reached the Turks machine gun "possies" it was easy to see why Johnny had departed. The Artillery fire had been terribly accurate. Many of the H.E.'s had made bull's eyes of these possies, and the trenches nearby. It was no wonder he went.
A short walk of about a quarter of a mile brought us to the Khan Hathrove or Hostel of the Good Samaritan. This place, which is comparatively modern, is said to be built on the site of the inn of the Parable of the Good Samaritan of the New Testament. One end of it suffered much from shell fire, and is a complete wreck. The front wall commanding a difficult turn in the road, had been broken in two places by the Turks, who had placed machine guns there to command dominate the approach. Hence the necessity of firing on the building.
A climb of another couple of hundred feet, and we stood on the