ours woke up sufficiently to raise a whistle, but as the other engine then immediately slid silently back again down the hill, ours relapsed into slumber again.
It turned out it was not the quietness of the place affecting it at all, but a breakdown on the line below us. However, after a couple of hours, all was clear and away we went again, this time at an increased pace to try and catch the old enemy, Time. Rocking, swaying and rattling round breakneck bends, we roared still down and down. And the great hills closed in even closer. On our right lay the Wadi bed, many feet below, and rising from it precipitous rocky mountains. On our left, in places the great hills towered above us, sometimes rising sheer from the line in rugged rock formation. And now, also, we had done with the cultivated areas, but the mountains were green with the bright grasses and the glossy greens of evergreen oaks, while wild hollyhocks in glorious profusion spangled the green with colour.
And still the enclosing hills grew wilder and more rugged, the bends sharper, and the descent steeper. Looking ahead, the line always appeared to end in a "cul de sac" and one wondered which way we turned next. And then, with a suddenness that was astounding, the hills on either side opened out, and with a rush and a roar we were out onto the great plain of Esdraelon, covered as far as the eye could see with fields of waving barley, growing golden towards harvest.
And so for many miles we rode thus, the crimson of the setting sun dying to a richer hue the great ripening barley fields, and tinting too, the great fruit orchards and gardens with its ruddy fires. A rich land this, a land in this part indeed fulfilling the Old Testament description, "flowing with milk and honey". A land, too, across which, so peaceful and serene it looked, it seemed impossible that war should have so lately stept. And yet it had, and under the green of the trees, and growing grasses and wild flowers, Death himself held sway, and his Kingship was acknowledged in the many quiet graves with white crosses which we passed. And the setting sun gilded these too, touching them with a tender glory, as though in blessing.
And so darkness fell, and one by one, the stars lit their lamps, and then the moon rose, and by and bye we rattled into Ludd. Here we had to change trains, and wait about three hours for our train. We went and had tea, and returned to the platform