 [Page 17] 
 6 Sunday  [May] Feet tired &ndash; run down due to inoculation. Saw the big crates at la Boignelle in afternoon. Pennefather came back. 3 officers went to Amiens 
 7 Monday off at 8.0 to Albert &amp; entrained for Bapaume.  Arrived there 1.30  &amp; marched on to dugouts in rear of Vaux. The 2nd Bde went up to relieve the 1st Bde. Cory &amp; I  found a cosy dug out  &amp; slept the sleep of the just! 
 8 Tuesday Rained during the night   &amp;  everyone got wet 'cept-Cory &ndash; I"!! Rain kept on during day the mud gets bad. The 15th  Bde took over our trenches, &amp; we moved forward to Vaux. Hellish bombardmt  at night. 
 9 Wednesday Spent a very cold night owg to a draughty billet &amp; no blankets! Trench coat came  in handy. Saw Colonel Milligan  &amp; we discussed the old 4th Bn. Moved our billets at night. Two gas alarms each wise wash outs. Slept well. 
 10 Thursday Topping weather. Recd 10 lrts today. 3 from Rup. Great cheers!!! Rained in evening.  No definite move in Bullecourt. Expected to go up to the Front trenches but was left alone. Guns busy 
 11 Friday News came thro that an English Division had captured Bullecourt. Weather lovely. Parcel of electric stuff  came from Muriel. 
 12 Saturday Am writing "some" diary to Rup. Just got on to the 20th  page.  Played Bridge in evening with Roberts, Run &amp;  Cory but was rather fer up and bored. Hun dropped a shell in our garden!!! 
 13 Sunday Recd orders to go up tonight and relieve the 55th. Posted long diary to Rup per Town major of Vaux  also have him my coat to mind. Ruined while the relief was on &amp; we all got wet 
 14 Monday The Beastly Boshe starts a barrage at 8 am. Keeps it up all day. Absolutely Hell!!  Take me home to Blighty!!! mud  &amp; wet also hellish. Feel like nothing on earth! 
 15 Tuesday The barrage stopped at 8 or thereabouts  &amp;  the Huns pinched a sector of the 54th with the aid of us (you bet) he was kicked out us feeling plurry awful. Head's like a fire 
 16 Wednesday Very quiet all morning. The Londons on our left reckon the Boche has retired Our patrols think different. Everyone rather windy about nothing. Capt Thompson moved in last night  &amp; we indulged in hot stew &amp;  cocoa today. 
 17 Thursday  at 1.30 am or thabts. the blessed dugout caved in &amp;  buried me!!  My right  shldr went bung  &amp;  I slept down at the AMC. Off to hospital  Warloy later after a tiresome journey. Wrote to Rup. 
 18 Friday The Doc tells me that the trouble is torn muscles on my right shlder. Quite an easy time and the gramophone passes the time. Wrote to Rup &amp; Ede 
 19 Saturday Sent notes to Shannon &amp; Post Corp. wrote to many letters to England.   Arm improving  am wondering what has happened to my Kit. 