The Canteen on board is well patronised, and tasty additions to the meals are obtained there from by the men. Tinned fruits are a general favourite, as also is tinned fish, sweets, chocolates, and aerated waters. Other necessary articles are also for sale which the men may at times feel themselves in need of.
The Y.M.C.A. and Red Cross Cabins supply the boys with reading matter of all kinds, from the best authors, to 3d Yellow Backs, or a 1d Love Story. Writing paper and envelopes are always available to the men, and at intervals during the voyage, fruit is distributed gratis.
Almost every day after leaving port, the wireless news is received and posted up each morning. It is interesting, not only to read the very latest news each day, but to note the different stations from which it is received. As the days go by, the station from which the news comes, gradually gets out of range, and the news is then picked up from stations which come within range. Maybe several of these stations will transmit messages each day, each station being a considerable distance one from the other. The news is welcomed by the troops, and eagerly scanned by both officers and men.
Church Parade is held at 10-30 a.m. every Sunday. All troops parade in Service Dress, and assemble on the Troop Deck for inspection, those who attend the Roman Catholic Service fall out of the ranks and muster in the Sergeants' quarters, while the remainder of the men congregate amidships on the troops deck. Hymn Books are distributed and the men enjoy singing the favourite tunes so well known by and men of all classes. "Rock of Ages", "Lead Kindly Light", and "O God, our help in Ages Past", are hymns that are always selected as some of the best. After the Padre has spoken for a few minutes, the Benediction is pronounced and the singing of "The National Anthem" brings the service to a close. After tea, the Y.M.C.A. representative, or one of the Padres generally carry on a Praise Service on the troop deck. Then the men choose their own hymns, and it is quite inspiring to hear how they sing those hymns. Other services are held during Sunday afternoon in the Dining saloon Bible Class, and sometimes Communion.
Bathing parades are held during the week days, each Unit having its separate day. A large canvas bath is hung to the rigging, with the bottom resting on the deck, and is filled with sea water by the ship's pumps. A constant stream of water is pumped into the bath, so that it is always fresh and clean. The Bath is about 10 ft long by 6 ft wide, by 4 ft deep, so that it affords nice room to splash about in. During the first few days it came into use, men who were fully dressed were placed therein to afford some amusement for the crowd, but the joke had to be cut out, as the lads were making it too willing, and in one case when the man who had been immersed in his clothes, and had hung them to dry, some of the lads hid them, leaving him nothing to wear, suitable for parades.
As the ship gets into the Danger Zone, Submarine and Mine Guards are mounted for Duty, and lifeboat drill becomes necessary to the routine. At 4 blasts of the ship's siren, each and every man rushes to his troop deck, secures a lifebelt and places it in position on himself, and stands to attention on his troop deck, in order of mess. One mess immediately climbs to the raft deck, makes ready to cut away, and throw them overboard. The ship is stopped for about 15 minutes, then the siren is blown again, denoting that the drill is over. Life belts are taken off, away and stacked away for any emergency. It is a solemn and very necessary drill, though not regarded as such at the time by the men. It also becomes necessary that all lights are out at sunset Smoking is prohibited at night and the ship slides on her way in the darkness, which at dead of night with a rough sea abeam is very uncanny.
Enquiries are made for men who have had gunnery experience, and the training of these men on the 4.7 gun aft, is carried out by the naval officers of the ship. A number of men are also trained