The voyage of which I write was one of at least 60 days at sea, and not one vessel of any description was sighted during that time. Consequently, one takes note of birds, weather, sunsets, c. on such occasions. One exceptionally calm day in mid ocean when the waters were asleep, the steamer stopped for some cause or other, and the Albatrosses were just swimming and flying around the stern of the ship, enjoying the morsels of food thrown to them by the men. It was an extraordinary sight, and reminded one of the swans as they glide on the quiet waters of the ponds at Botanical Gardens of our cities, when the children throw food to them. Then there is the Petrel, Cape Pigeon, and other sea birds the names of which are unknown to me.
As we were about 4 days off the land, and nearing our first port of call, the Flying Fish made their appearance. Rising on the crest of a wave, they would fly some 50 yards before dropping to water again. I am told that they fly till their wings or fins get dry, when they immediately fall to the water again. The porpoises also made their appearance leaping from the water, and swimming alongside the ship, as if challenging to race. Whales also were seen to spout, but at a considerable distance away. Another interesting item is the phosphorous in the sea water, which of course is only seen at night. Peculiar matter this is, shining like numerous fireflies as it passes away from the ship's side. In the showers of the Bathroom, if one chances to indulge at night time, the phosphorus falls like sparks to the floor.
Coming back to our subject again, I must not forget to mention that a Sports Tournament is generally arranged during the voyage. Days are set apart for the different events, which include Boxing, Tug of war, Quoits, Skipping, Races, Cards Draughts, and numerous other items. Great interest is manifested in this competition, and the entries are numerous.
Concerts are also arranged, and it is surprising to find the variation of programme that can be obtained from the troops. The C.O. Troops generally presides, and the Padres, Y.M.C.A. Representative, and others assist. The Officers, both Military, and those belonging to the ship, are to be found enjoying the entertainment along with the men. Piano, Violin, Flute, Cornet, Organ, Mouth Organ, and even to the Bagpipes, supply the instrumental items, while vocal artists are numerous, and others skilled in elocution add their numbers.
One morning a most amusing incident happened, though it might have proved serious. At breakfast, one of the Mess Orderlies who had been up at the Cookhouse for extra Stew for his mess, was returning to the Mess Deck, and when a few steps down the companionway, the ship lurched and he missed his footing. Down he came headlong to the bottom of the stairs and on to the Mess deck. What a sight he presented when he picked himself up stew from head to foot. The men cheered, clapped, and demanded an encore.
The stairs were of course all greasy form the stew, and several of the men who had been on deck and had not witnessed this stewpid performance, when coming down the stairs stepped on the greasy treads, repeating the performance of their first digger, to the delight of the already excited audiance.