Life Aboard an Australian Troopship
At Sea22/10/18 to 28/12/18
To the young recruit who has received his training in an Australian Military Camp, and is ready for embarkation for service overseas, a certain amount of imagination, and dreams of what it will be like on board the troopship, also thoughts of what the life at sea will reveal, will often be uppermost in his mind.
It is to be understood that he has had his Final Leave, and goodbye has already been said to many of his distant friends.
Most young soldiers look forward to life on the ocean wave, with a happy thought, and a sense of anticipated pleasure, knowing that they are to pass from the dreary monotony of the everyday routine of drill and camp life to a period of comparative rest, change, and excitement, together with the fact that they are at least one step nearer their desires and hopes.
One of their first thoughts at this period of their Military life, will be the separation from loved ones, a thought that causes a little heart ache for the moment, but which is quickly dispelled by means of a jest, or by the sense of duty which must prevail at such times. In a jocular way perhaps, seasickness will also be thought of, but this thought too will be quickly disposed of when he considers that "if Johnson can stand it I can". A grand spirit.
But the time draws near when the imaginary changes to reality, and one day orders are given that Kit Bags are to be packed, and instructions as to what they shall contain are posted for the troops information. They are informed that the Sea Kit Bag should contain rubber shoes, clothes, white hat, towels, shirts, socks, and the necessary articles for toilet use, together with Salt Water soap, and other personal effects. These articles are for the use on the voyage, as the Sea Kit Bag will be placed in a convenient spot easy of access on the troop deck. On the other hand the Universal Kit Bag will contain clothing, and articles which will only be required when the journey overseas is completed. This bag is placed in the hatch below decks, and only available at intervals on the voyage.
The day prior to embarkation at last arrives. The soldier is out of camp as early as possible, and makes for home by the quickest possible way, for the last evening ashore is to be spent with his nearest and dearest. The tea on this occasion is to be a special one (his mother looks after that) and kind friends gather at his home to give him the best send-off possible. After tea they adjourn to the Music Room, and the artists (capable and otherwise) do their best to make happiness and pleasure abound. Games are played, dancing indulged in, and presentations form a special item on the programme. (His sweetheart has already remembered him, and in the quiet of the evening (when two has been company) she has handed him perhaps a nice V.P.K. Camera, or a lovely Pocket Wallet, containing her sweetest photograph.) But his many friends of both sexes have also thought of him, and during the evening, in a few words of farewell, have asked his acceptance of little gifts which become so useful to a soldier "over there". His Mother has also carefully and thoughtfully secured for him, something nice and useful, which perhaps others have failed to think of, but you see He is her own soldier boy.
The evening has passed quickly, and "Auld Lang Syne" is sung with a lump in many a throat, and a tear in many an eye. Goodnight! and Au Revoir, lad Good luck, a safe and speedy return, are the wishes from one and all as they pass on homeward.
The day of embarkation dawns all are early astir, for the 15th leave today for the front. The "Fall in" sounds, and has never been more promptly answered. "Roll Call", inspection, and final instructions are over. The order "Advance in column of route from the right" Form 4s "Right", "Quick March", and the boys swing out from the parade ground with a heavy pack, but with a light heart. On the way to the station, one end of the column is singing, "Ragtime Soldiers" while from the rear come the strains of "Australia will be there".