
the 30th arrived in good time, but nothing for either my reinforcement or the 32nd, (in charge of Sergt. Gorrel) had arrived up to the time of our leaving Menangle for Melbourne. . As soon as I found that we were likely to remain at Broadmeadows for a few days I sent you a wire on behalf of the two reinforcements, with the result that our boys had at least something to remind them of the thoughtfulness of the workers at the 1st. Light Horse Fund Depot.Believe me to be,Yours faithfully[indecipherable] Sgtn.c.o. i/c 31st./ 1st A.L.H. regt.
On behalf of the 1st L.H.Reinforcements, I wish to express sympathy with you in your recent illness. And hope that you will soon be restored to your usual health and strength. The spirit of the boys is excellent, and their behaviour very creditable.
7/11/171st. Light Horse Reinforcements.Menangle Park Camp
Mrs. VernonHon.Sec.1st Light Horse Comforts Fund
Dear MadamI am in receipt of your letter dated the 1st inst. Which has only arrived today,with reference to the supply of comforts for men of the First Regiment on the voyage to Egypt.
I am extremely sorry that arrangements were not made to secure an adequate supply of same for the men of the reinforcements which have just sailed. On the only previous occasion upon which a reinforcements has sailed since I took command of the reinforcements, Sergeant Jones took the matter in hand and everything seems to have been satisfactory.
On this occasion Sergeant Kitching of the 30th Rfts. was detailed to make all arrangements in connection with the comforts and he visited your depot for that purpose. Upon his return and the arrival of the Comforts, Sgt. Jones remarked that he had insufficient for the whole of the three Reinforcements. He replied that he had only been able to get sufficient for the 30thIn future I shall make it my business to superintend this matter in person . Meanwhile Sergeant Jones will supply you with the information you require. I trust that this apparent neglect will not cause you and your workers to think that your kind thought and efforts on behalf of the men are not appreciated, and you may depend that while I am in command of the Reinforcements a similar oversight will not occurI am Dear MadamYours obediently  Robt  H Munro Capt.O/C.  Refts. 1st A.L.H.R.