Sunday 30
 Move from Steenvoorde to Dickebusch partly by foot partly by motor through Poperinghe Camp for a while in Buren Chateau where we were in the centre of a Fritz bombing stunt.
Oct., 1917
 Monday 1
 Move up to the line through Ypres on the Menin road where the fighting lately has been very severe. The ground is broken up very much the roads back are lined with dead men animal. The shelling just now is moderate.
Tuesday 2
 Very busy day on left of Menin Road at R.A.P. other posts. The system of practice barrages is being adopted two very heavy ones daily taking place. Fritz counter attacked tonight his barrage was very heavy. Held up by it for about two hours. Post is being heavily shelled it is decided to move it up to safer position. A battery blown out above us. 
Wednesday 3
 Move back to Dickebush through Ypres. Pass the ruins of Cloth Hall other buildings. No building has more than a few bricks left to mark it. I suppose this battle will be called 4th Battle of Ypres or Menin Road. Another attack takes place tomorrow elaborate preparations are being made for it
 From accounts it will be the final objective of the battle the ridge commanding a great amount of flat country hazards any coastal enterprises of Fritz. The dead in horses men is enormous, especially well back
Thursday 4
 Move back through Ypres to Nestock ridge thence to forward posts of the new advance. It has been raining the place has been converted into a veritable quagmire. 
 The advance this morning was entirely successfull to-nights counter attack was repulsed. Zonnebeke was taken last nightthis morn.
Friday 5
 At forward posts of new advance where we up to our knees in mud. The carrying is very heavy long. The shelling is very severe, nearly all 5.9 over. Our casualties have been heavy since the ambulance has been on this sector 13 killed including Major Hunt about 30 wounded, including many old boys.
Saturday 6
 Not much work today it has been showery. Two more casualties have resulted bringing total to 45. Morris was killed.
 Move to Garber point for night