Sunday 25 April 1915
4.55 First man landed by 
at 3 am a terrific tramping roaring screaming of horses on the horse decks. The sudden extinguishing of lights having the effect of terrifying the horses mules. Pickets guards groping on the dark shore to calm the maddened creatures ? On deck a calm sea cleft into furrows by the long lines of the swiftly steaming transports away ahead. The brown of the land overhung with two bright morning stars, silence except in the murmur of the densely packed crowd in the forward decks. On on toward the two gleaming stars a faint rattle far ahead gradually focussing into a distinctly muffled rattle the first shots of the attack. Our infantry at work passed the word from mouth to mouth. Louder louder as we sped onward the eastern sky now flashing with faintest light.  away ahead as the blue grey land mass now becoming more tangible as the serrated edges of the hills appeared. From out of the gloom stealthy dark shaped destroyers forward to meet us. The base of the hills sparkles with the tiny points of light from the rifle muzzles the destroyers draw to the transport the khake crowds surge toward the rail swarm down the ladders away into the mysterious gloom where louder louder grows the rattle of the rifle fire. Lighter lighter it grows away to the south a strip of land shows darker against the rest. Suddenly blank blank blank blank the red flashes spray from the dark cliffs high up against the now bright sky tiny black dots appear spreading into fleecy balls rings ? the shore batteries have opened. Boom ? swish ? bump ? boom. From the silent battle ships around us stream red flame upon the dark promontory huge V shaped splashes of fire spring spout. Boom boom one by one the great ships open fire the shore is lit with red sparks clouded with huge columns of smoke as the huge shell fling rock sand into the air but thro all the smoke comes the whack whack of the shore gun. Shells burst high above us throw huge spouts of water all around one bursting almost on our bow scatters the hatches from the focsle turning the water alongside into foam. Still the destroyers parade with long lines of boats strung behind steam away into the brown of the shore.
The roar of the rifles swells the louder rattle of the Maxims swells the huge volume of sound. 
The attack of the Australians has opened.