Wednesday 24th Commenced unloading about nine am. I was taken off on a stretcher as I was placed in a motor ambulance, some English ladies provided us with cigarettes  milk flowers etc. Then the motor took us right out of Valetta to a big bare building known as St Georges Hospital, I was placed in a large cheerless looking ward and was washed and put in a nice bed then the Dr came around and me he will overhaul me to-morrow. Had a high temperature and slept soundly.
Thursday 25th Early in the morning the night sister washed me and I felt easier, nine a.m. the Dr a fine clever physician examined me thoroughly and diagnosed something different but I have not yet heard its name. This is an English Hospital with the usual dull obvious Tommy Orderlies however the sisters are very fine we have one Aust in our ward and two young English Girls belonging to the VAD. Wrote to brothers
Friday 26th Feel better, informed I was suffering also from sciatica, spent a restless day. Was plastered again by sister, consequently very sore.
Saturday Nov 27th Cabled home to-day, we were paid also the big sum of 2/- being our allowance whilst in hospital. We were all moved upstairs in the pm to G. 5 Ward we were sorry to leave the old one as both the Dr sisters were splendid, the two sisters were Scotch and a young lady of the VAD. Our new ward overlooks the sea and at night time it is bitterly cold, their are two nice sisters in this ward both braw Scotch. I am lucky as I have two Austs each side of me and we manage to fill in the day.
Sunday 28 Do not care for new Dr so much as other, his treatment is not half so good. Have for the past two days been suffering from Neuralgia so I must have my last molar out when I am able. Wrote home during the day.
Monday 29 Had a bad night with my head but my back is much easier. Dr has put me on No 3 diet for tomorrow after 6 weeks on milk. We hear there has been some big scrapping at the Dardanelles but nothing further ? The Balkan situation is still critical owing to the hesitancy of Greece.