Many are the practical jokes played on each other by the lads as they journey across the briny, to reinforce their "cobbos" "over there". Gloominess is practically unknown, and although danger may be lurking around, little they seem to fear from the stealthy U boat or the death dealing mine, and when the boys are not at drill, on fatigue Duty, Guard, or playing some game, you can depend upon it they are hatching some joke to play on some "digger" for their amusement.
On board our troopship we had a fastidious, finniky, old Pay Sergeant known as Mac. (McCarthy). Everyone on board knew Mac, and nearly every time he came along the deck he would be greeted with the words "When are we getting paid, Mac" at which Mac would bite very savagely. Mac used to sleep on deck in an empty piano case, when the weather was good, and one night some of the lads emptied the contents of a tin of condensed milk all over Mac's blankets. When Mac went to bunk that night, the milk sweetened his blankets alright, but it didn't sweeten Mac's temper. No one of course knew how the milk got into the blankets or how the blankets got into the milk, or how Mac got into both, but being registered under the Pure Foods Act it must have stuck to Mac like a mustard plaster to a weezy chest. Mac was annoyed, indignant, wroth, and challenged the offender, (whom he thought belonged to the Sergeant Quarters) to make himself known, but the challenge remained unchallenged. He, however, stated that he would report the matter to the Ship's Adjutant if the culprit did not give himself up within 24 hours. The time of the Armistice slipped by, so Mac couched the following letter of complaint:-
Sir,I have to report that during the night of the 24th. instant. my blankets and myself were the recipients of the contents of a tin of condensed milk, c, c.
The Ship's Adj. was so amused at the letter that he, unbeknown to Mac, had copies of the letter made to show to his friends. Poor Mac he made a deal of amusement for the boys on board, and by so doing, unconsciously kept up their spirits during times when things looked very "blue", brought about by that terrible scourge the Pneumonic 'flu, of which we had over 400 cases aboard, 30 of which "passed out".
On another occasion when some of the men of the 15th G.S.R. (Vic) were on guard duty, and had just been relieved for the night and gone below for a few hours sleep, a number of those "off duty" when everything was quiet, slipped from their hammocks, and gently painted the faces of the sleeping heroes with Kiwi Black Boot Polish. You can imagine what they looked like on the morrow, and how they were admired by their pals. As Kiwi Polish is very hard to remove from the skin, I can assure you there was some extra scrubbing done on the dials of those diggers that morning.
Nearly every troopship has its "Magazine", and ours was no exception to the rule. A Committee was formed, and immediately got to work to obtain all the information possible in regard to its compilation. Items of interest were invited from the men, and Prose, Poetry, sketches, photographs c. were advertised for. Our Magazine was named "The Boonah Buzzer", and it contains Advertisements, Lost Found, Wanteds, Situations Vacant, Matrimonial, Wireless Press, Leading articles, latest Sporting, and all that can be desired. Under the heading of "Lost Found" you have something like the following:- Lost 1 seven pound tin of jam, last seen travelling in the direction of Railway Unit quarters. Finder return without sampling to 21st G.S.R. Lost An Army sausage, answers to same of "Fido". Reward on returning to Pte. A. Dope. Detainer prosecuted. Found a Tooth brush. Number of hairs to be stated thereon. Apply to Pte. Gummy, 15th GSR.
In the "Wanted to Know" column, questions similar to the following are asked:-
"Should the "Boonah" be allowed to pitch and toss, seeing that gambling is prohibited."
Why did the Censor pass this My Darling Peach Just a few lines to let you know I am well. I will soon be home, and may God protect you From your loving husband.