like ?ell". Gradually, however, the storms became less frequent, until when we reached Jerusalem, it was fairly fine. By the time we got to Bethlehem, the sky was clear, though it remained cold. It looks like a fine day tomorrow. We are camped in a fine, clean, sandy position right on the outskirts of Bethlehem, in an olive Garden. I had hopes of being able to get leave here, but orders tonight after "feed up" have knocked it on the head. 
Even on duty, one has to have a special pass, no one is to leave the bivouac area under any pretext whatever, unless provided with a special pass, or accompanied by an Officer. Heigho, it seems a case of "so near and yet so far". Contradictory "furfies" are flying about, one that we are here a couple of days, another that we go on to Jericho in the morning. Our poor horses sadly need at least a week's spell, with all the feed they can eat. They are cutting up terribly, and most of them are both shin sore and foot sore, with the rough roads. There is a weary ?fed up of the war? look in their eyes, that are big with a mute appeal for food whenever one approaches them.
15 March Yesterday was a bad day, but today is the wildest and most turbulent I have seen in this country. Enormous masses of rugged clouds have been driving low down on the hills before a furious blast all day. My own bivvy is still standing, but many were blown down. When for a moment the gale ceases the rain falls in great drops. To-night, just as it was growing dusk, the sky presented one of the wildest pictures imaginable. The clouds in the west had broken a little, and their racing banked up masses, of cloud were dark with the approaching night, were shot through at their torn and jagged edges lurid with the blood-red glow of the departing day.
Over the desolate region of the Dead Sea, they hung in forbidding banks wild, weird formation pile upon pile, dark, gloomy, and forbidding, and ever changing, now banked up into a thunderous mass, and now riven asunder into long ragged streamers, and