of the hills. Right on the furthest edge of this the Ambulance was camped. It is good to be so near abundance of water. After unyoking and fixing the horses up, a shave and a bath are pleasant duties. The old village of Beitunia crowns the hill on the left of the road. here
March 8th We are to stay in this Camp, I hear, until afternoon. Last night I was awaked by the gentle patter of the rain on the roof of my bivvy, and this morning it is coming down steadily. We can look forward to two or three days of wet and discomfort again I suppose. As we are now well into March, the rainy season should be about over. I hope so, at any rate. Three of us went up into the village on the hill this morning. The places are of very solid construction, one in particular is very large and underneath are stone arches opening into all kinds of queer tortuous passages and underground rooms. In these the native population live in the midst of filth and odour indescribable.
In the centre of the village among the ruins are two marble columns, one upright, the other lying down. They are about 13 ft. long, with cornices top and bottom, they have no inscriptions of any kind, but have without doubt been brought from some more pretentious building than any in the village. A Turkish battery has been camped here at one time, but the ground all round his gun position is pitted with shell-holes, or H.E. leaving a tremendous cavity about 10 yds. from him. An old Arab telling us about it, said that, after that shell came many of the Turks "slept". I should think they did. ?The rest? he said "imshied" (ran away).
From the top of the houses a good view of Jerusalem can be seen, and on the left crowning a hill the Christian village of Rammalah Ram Allah. The promise of rain in the morning did not, fortunately for us, materialise, and the afternoon is fine. According to Brigade Orders, we were to move out at 4.30 P.M. With characteristic military precision we moved at 5 P.M. and went about 500 yards, where we stuck till about 6.30. It was already dark when we passed through the village of Ram Allah. Even in the gloom one could distinguish many fine buildings in this place, mostly, by their appearance, of a religious character.