 [Page 30] 
 ADMINISTRATIVE HEADQUARTERS 
 AUSTRALIAN IMPERIAL FORCE 
 Australian War Records Section 
 103 Horseferry Road. 
 LONDON. S.W.1 
 January 25th 1919 
 In reply quote 
 Sir/ 
 &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; It is desired to obtain for inclusion in the historical records of the A.I.F. biographical details of senior officers, and it will be appreciated if the attached form may be completed and returned to this Section as soon as possible in order that the information may be available immediately to the Official Historian. Should you for any reason not desire to complete the form will you please initial and return it in order that reminders may not be thought necessary. 
 2. &nbsp; The last item (period during A.I.F. service considered most interesting) has been included at the special request of the Official Historian. 
 3. &nbsp; It will be further appreciated if a portrait of recent date, preferably one taken in the field and unmounted, is also forwarded. 
 4. &nbsp; In the case of deceased Officers, their next of kin will be asked to supply the information required. It is thought, however, that in many cases brother officers will be able to supply many details of interest. Should you therefore be able to do this in the case of any senior officer, will you please inform me of his name, and a form will then be sent to you for completion on his behalf. 
 5. &nbsp; It is known that many officers are in possession of important documentary records, trophies and relics, and photographs, collected in most cases before the War Records Section was formed and frequently with the ultimate object of handing them over to some recognised authority appointed to collect and preserve the records of the A.I.F., and the desirability of transferring any such records, etc., which you may possess to the custody of this&nbsp;Section, is suggested for your consideration. Fitting acknowledgment will be made in each instance. In the case of photographs copies will be made and the originals returned. 
 J.S. Trelour Major 
 Officer i/c. Aust. War Records Section. 
 [Noted in pencil] 
 Report &amp; Photo (ExF) posted 17/5/19 