Sunday 15
 Early this morning Fritz attacked our left bombarded our pozzy very heavily but no casualties resulted. His attack was a complete failure his casualties heavy. Ours were slight. Rotten wet weather..
Monday 16
 In the attack last night one Battn on our left was beaten back even lost four 18 pdrs (Actually 18 captured but 14 recovered intact) but in a brilliant daylight counter attack recovered the guns 600 prisoners all lost ground. 1200 dead Germans counted in our lines. Also last night a mine exploded in Hermies, rocking our dugout, a mile away.
 The 2nd Batt relieve the 3rd tonight a new R.A.P. is to be established we move back a hundred yards or so. Wet miserable. Fritz brings one of our balloons down in flames.
Tuesday 17
 Move again just behind Hermies where we built a dugout for a wagon rendezvous. Rain snow shine.
Wednesday 18
 Nothing at all eventful. Making dugouts in the mud and rain. Rotten wet day. It appears that the capture of Hermies is one of the greatest feats the Australians have to their credit as it was far more strongly defended than anticipated but our chaps say that Fritz does not know the value of his machine guns. Our line is very weakly held but quite strongly enough to give Fritz a very
Thursday 19
 bad time in his two counter attacks, one to-day in which he was worse off than that of 16th. Weather raining still. One of our planes the latest spud, accounted for two enemy baloons this morning.
Friday 20
 Move back for a couple of days spell.
 Everything we hear of Fritz's last attack points to the seriousness of it. He captured 22 guns 16 MG's on the counter attack five of the 18 pdrs were found destroyed no MG's recovered. However his casualties were very heavy. One chap with accounted for 80 is recommended for a V.C.
Saturday 21
 Chateau at Velu built by Marquis de Covronnel in 1719.
 Walk round the chateau of Velu the grounds which once were beautiful but are now the scene of much vandalism on the part of the Germans. Here the River has its source we bathed in it this morning.