Mon Sept 2
Fritz was over again last night and kept us awake with his Bombs. Bridle, one of the chaps who came with me from Weymouth is camped near here. He does the cooking for his crowd. I went over to the A.D.S. this morning. There seems to be a good crowd of wounded coming thro?, and quite a good sprinkling of Huns. Several batches of prisoners have gone by, but they don't look up to much.
We moved again after Tea, up to the 25 A.S.C. Line. We are camped in a Paddock, near a Battery of 9.2. We had to dig a hole and roof it over with Trench Covers. We passed over a Bridge on our way here, which Fritz has blown up with Bombs 5 times, but it doesn't take the Engineers long to fix it up again.
Tues 3
We moved near the Village of Hem. Had to dig a Hole and cover it with Tarps for a Camp. Rather cramped for space. There is a Battery of 8" Guns close by, but thank the Lord they are only for use in case of S.O.S.
Wed 4
The Hun continues to fall back and we are kept continually on the move. The whole bloomin? army seems to be looking for itself. We are attached to the 25 A.S.C. now. The Tucker is very rough. We thought it was good to be attached to A.S.C., but so far it's a dud. I?d sooner go back with the 8th than fooling around like this.
Thur Aug 5
Last night things were very exciting. First of all Fritz's planes came over and bombed all around us. Then one of his High Velocity shells went into the Ground about 10 yds away from our dugout. We were just settling down again, when the picket sung out "Gas". Then there was a wild struggle to find our Gas masks, and we had to wear them for about an hour till we got the "All clear". We had to move up again nearer the A.S.C. I rode the Bike, but it was a very dusty ride. We are camped on the side of a Hill, near a big stack of Fritz's shells of various sizes. 
There is a big swamp just across the Road, which is simply teeming with water hen. I had a good Bath and did some washing. The water was very cold. At night we had to move back to our old Camp again. Just as we were moving off a terrific thunderstorm broke loose. And it rained like fury. It was quite dark when we reached Camp, so we just had to crawl in under a Tarp, and sleep there.
Fri Sept 6
Slept fairly comfortable last night, altho? it was on the Ground. Fritz was quiet for once. We found quite a good "humpy", and moved the Postal Gear into it. My kit bag arrived from Base. There are plenty of good dugouts about. We are moving again tomorrow. They did give us time to settle down. I really ought to write some Letters, but with this continual moving about one doesn't get the chance. "Sleep" and I slept in a dinky little dugout on our own.