when the big push this year, is going to start we do not know yet, but we know that it is going to start. So does Germany, and she is still barking about Peace. but that is her business she does not want to face the push yet she wants to gain time. So does King Tino and perhaps the Australian Rags shewed how the British War Office were playing the same old game with that wily gentleman they let him play his own game. when they decided to land troops on the Peninsula, Tino failed them there, then when they landed at Salonica Tino was not friendly still they treated him as an honest friend "the old style "Believe a man honest untill you prove him a Rogue.." he generally gets first hit in then, and you realise that your policy has got you into a mess. So it is with England, they have trusted, Tino allmost too far. instead of 
smashing Athens up with heavies, and salting the small coast towns with Shrapnell and high explosive shells. None of their parties Royalist or otherwise are safe. I would not trust them any further than I would a hun. Bismarcks policy would carry more weight with the Greeks than any of the Soft Answer Business. England is beginning to understand that much and the great hives of workers are turning out good hard answers, tons and tons of them. and the new tanks are preparing for great things, it will be lively somewhere in France when the spring comes. Some of our boys who were slightly wounded at Pozieres in July have been back to France on the Flers front, and are back here in Blighty again they had a pretty bad time out there in the mud. I am not looking forward to France at all, the cold there is worse than the shells for the cold kills slowly. but a shell just does the job or else sends you back. here. Mrs. Horton told me about Johns friend Littler I was surprised to hear of him. I had a letter from him when I was in hospital but it had no Rank or Reg No. on it and I could not make the name out, it looked like Linter. I made inquiries from various Machine gunners but no one knew Linter, so I gave up, when Mrs. H. told me of him I wrote to him had I known of him, when I was on Furlough I could have gone up to Huddersfield to see him but now I will not see him at all. I have not