France 2nd 8th.17
Dear J. Its nearly time I sent you a line to let you know that I am, still on the List, and have an average chance of remaining on. I dont feel much in the humour for writing, it has been a rotten day, all together rain, and cold wind, and theres any quantity of mud outside, one good thing we are at present quartered in a fine large barn which has not had any troops in it for 6 months so we are a little better off than we might have been. Where we will be and what we will be doing in the next 10 days is a matter for speculation, rumour predicts that we will be out looking for stouch, or fritz. just at present we hear tales of vain searches for the enemy yess? we heard the same just before Herme's but when we went up he was there allright, we arrived up here last friday about 3 a.m. detrained and marched straight out to Billetts, as per usual every place that might prove of interest is labelled out of bounds to all troops, and we are warned that if caught therein we will be Sumarily dealt with. such is life out on a couple of route marches we have been able to see a little of the country but only a little. The crops look O.K. in most cases the wheat especially, but a lot of the oat crops have been laid low by heavy wind and rain and look like being spoiled alltogether, potato crops look healthy, but rather too much top on then, Beet crops also are coming on nicely other miscellaneous crops, Beans french, Broad, peas.. Maize, etc. all look well very different to the crops down where we were last billetted, there were a few decent patches of wheat there, but the majority was poor on account of the chalk which was very close to the surface. We can purchase plenty of eggs, and Butter here first named 3d. each second 3/- per lb. so anyone who wants it, and had the needful, can get it without any trouble, at times it is harder to secure the cash than it is to get the other things, but we are paid at fairly regular intervals. Was making inquiries about Ted Mackinson a couple of weeks ago, and found that he is now with the 1st Inf. as Lieut received his Com some time ago. have not been able to see anything of Jack Howell so far and have not heard from Harry for some time, he was still in Blighty when he wrote last but was expecting orders to move at any time, so he may be over here by now.