we are just waiting, and waiting, but it is no use letting that worry us, The weather, has been fairly good, and that is a very big item, just at the present time, Sunday was a lovely bright sunny day, with scarcely a cloud in the sky. There have been a few dull cloudy days, but not very much rain lately. Last night it started, and for a while I thought we were in for a good heavy downpour, but it ceased after awhile and now the sun is shining bright and warm, again, for which we are all very thankful, The farmers have most of their wheat stacked and a few of them have started threshing, and all are busy plowing They only just scratch the surface of the ground some of them not more than 2 inches deep, then after awhile they go over it again with a cultivator, they may be well satisfied with their methods of farming, and the results but I dont like them my self, but I do like the way some of them work, they are very patient especially the womenfolk. some of them seem to work harder than the men out in the fields, These men have just come in off parade, so I will not get much peace now while they are out it is nice and quiet, and I have a better opportunity to write up some of my back correspondence, I still have a lot of letters to answer, I have not heard from Mrs. Horton for about three weeks now. but they were all well, when I got the last letter. I wrote to Nurse G. again but I have not heard from her yet. I dont know whether my Letters have been going astray, or not. I wrote some time ago but never received any answer, and I fancy some of my letters never got through, to Overstand, Did I tell you in any of my Letters that the sox made by Aunt N. from Monars. wool. arrived safely. I have been wearing them, and they are very comfortable. I wrote to thank Aunt. N. for them, but the address that I have is not too good, just the street but no name or No of the house, I hope the letter gets through safely. Mrs. Barker enclosed some very good snapshots, shewing the house, and part of the grounds. one of them, was a picture