France 5th.9.18.
Dear J. For sometime past I have been promising to answer your letters, but up to the present have not done so, though I have little news to tell you I will make an attempt now.
Just at present I'm having a sort of forced holiday, Thanks to fritz and his mustard gas, it nothing serious, but very inconvenient, and a bit painful, when I get into action again I'll make the first Hun I get a shot at think that there's a war on, just to get even, you take my word for it mustard gas is no Bon, and just the sort of stuff that fritz would think of using, It's a rotten thing to use for it does not act on your Breathing apparatus alone its very apt to raise blisters in other parts if you get into a sufficiently strong concentration, Ive got the blisters in other parts myself but they are not bad enough to take me away from the Bn. and someone over Fritzs side will have to pay the Piper, that is if any of them wait Lately they have shown themselves to be fairly good footrunners though a few of them fought well, they had to for the boys were out to get as many of them as possible, and they didn't care whether they dead or alive. I guess it hurt him a bit to lose some of the guns and munitions for everything points to one fact, "That he is getting very short of material, his cartridge cases, are mostly made of steel ? copper washed to prevent rust, his sand bags are made of very tough paper. The same material is used for various other purposes, and there are many other indications, that he is short of material, but one cannot help admiring the way in which he overcomes some of these difficulties There is no getting away from the fact that he is clever, from a scientific point of view, but when it comes to fighting, our fellows have him beaten badly. The Huns do not care to tackle positions held by our men and when our fellows attack, you can bet your life that fritz leaves in a hurry once they get close, or else puts up his hands in the good old Kamerad style, I only wish that we could put half a million men in the field, at once, I guess they would not stop far short of the German Border, and then the others could carry on. When the Yanks start moving properly I guess that Wilhelm Co will wish they hadn't started out on this campaign. I for one will not be surprised if the German people wake up soon and demand peace ? also the head of Ludendorf. for he promised them Paris and a few other trifles and he has failed. for my own part I fancy that he might as well promise them Aussie, he has nearly as much hope of realizing a dream of that sort.