Last night torpedoed close to us sub taken by our escort

X Late . Passing Lizard Light
 Calm off Eddystone, going into Plymouth Rds.
 9 30 Entered Plymouth
 (Up this morning 4.30 in order to get off early to train)
 Packed up ready all morning, raining. Took gear off had dinner. 6 separate sets of orders re dress. Boarded tender at 5 p.m. Hour in which officers luggage taken on lighter. Arrived docks 6.30. Lined up waited for train. Train left 8.30. Arrived Exeter 11 pm. Bun in bay w bottles filled with hot tea by .
 Incident of debarkation as tender drew up to whf. Officer of Flying Corps "All off ? Flying Corps first!!" 
 

 Mild looking Senior officer (in charge disembarkation)
 "Never mind ? come along just as you are!" Flying man with M.G's laugh long loud.
 Plymouth full troops going to front held up by subs. Consider us lucky to run through safely. People here have been very anxious re boats at sea during past couple weeks. Our O.C. tells us things very dicky for us just prior to arrival of T.B. flotilla. 
 29th Detrained at Penham Downs 6.30 am Marched through mud darkness about a mile to camp. Then marched aimlessly round the camp roads until 9 am looking for a home wherein to rest, 9 am still dark wet, marched into huts ? 15 in a hut ? warm snug when cleaned fire lighted. Fooled round in mud all day getting fixed. two biscuits all day ? the mob's half starved savage. Seymour was a king to this.
 30th Fixed up at last. Complimented by commandant for good behaviour coming in. Tucker supply arriving slowly ? margarine bread, a little jam, tea, bully. Nothing hot so far, but promised. No work until hunger appeased. The trouble all arises from the mix up caused by the wreck, subsequent splitting up of P Lincoln units among other ships. 


 Later details of our little affair out in the channel seem to show that the Subs mistook a merchantman for one of ?us? and got her. She SOS.ed T.Bs of our Escort went over. While looking for her the subs were tempted got two, but showed themselves to other TBs who got the lot thus fully their pals