Nov 5th To night I visited Heliopolis the fashionable resident suburb of Cairo. Here most of the well to do European people live. Among the fine buildings are a fine Catholic Church the Heliopolis Palace now 1st Aust General Hospital accommodating at a pinch 3000 wounded.
Nov 6th This afternoon I went out to Mena the site of the camp of the 1st Aust Division. Here too are to be seen the greatest sights of Egypt vis the Pyramids, Sphinx their appurtenant temples also the River Nile in its annual inundation. Of the Pyramids Sphinx every one knows I witnessed the world renowned sunset over the desert with the Pyramids etc as a foreground. The Nile is crossed by fine bridges Gheziah Palace is the site of No 2 Aust General Hospital accommodating many men standing in fine grounds. 
Nov 7th First church parade in Egypt after I had a day in Cairo. Travelled in in a motor ambulance may here remark that the rule of the road is "keep to the right" there is no speed limit. The museum is place of chief interest in to-days peregrinations. It is very interesting in having many ancient works as well as the mummies of the ancient kings of Egypt including Rameses II One could easily spend a whole day here. In the afternoon I went too the Zoo the most important things to be seen are the Pontoons which the Turks attempted to cross the Canal last Febry. The vultures are the most interesting animals.
Nov 9th Route march to the Oblisk which is covered with hieroglyphics. Here sugar 
cane is the chief object of cultivation.
Nov 10th Route march to date plantation where I see the primitive methods of irrigation used by the natives. The ox the water wheel with an endless chain of hide buckets in a well is the principle.
Nov 12th Warned to proceed to the front on the morrow. Excitement among the boys. Great night in Cairo, possibly the last good time for a long time.
Nov13th Entrain for Alexandria. The run through is more interesting than that from Suez to Cairo being mostly along the Nile banks. When the river is some distance away a canal takes its place which is used both for navigation irrigation. The river is extensively used for both purposes. is crossed in several places by fine bridges. There is also more cultivation manufacture evident en route. Tanta is the chief station being a junction town of some importance. About 6 hours.