  
 Abs. alcohol 2pts Liq. Arsencalis 1 pt     apply 2 daily Vin. Ipec 1pt 
 Mrs Herbert Richmond 823 1 Dynevor Rd R'mond 
 H.M. Trotter 27 Notintone Place N'Ham 
 36 Brooke St Holborn London E.C.1. 
 [Below seem to be notes for a letter to be written] J. Influenza Collin to France Girl in [Indecipherable] Bike rides & Bulford staying here 
 Linesey "Summer Hill" Jurby Isle of Man 
 Coming tomorrow Wednesday, Can find my way. Never mind meeting Harry 
 [Transcriber's notes A.D.H stands for Australian Dermatological Hospital and the hospital at Bulford dealt almost exclusively with venereal disease. Albany Wards - not able to find any reference to these but on 24/12/1917 Nichols refers to Albany Ice wards and this might mean Albany Isolation Wards. Blatherskite is a person who talks at great length without making much sense. Bulford Barracks are about 2kms ENE of Bulford.  Practice trenches built in WW1 can still be seen between Tidworth and Bulford Barracks. C3 - a health fitness category. A1 Fit for active service A2 Fit for active service when fully trained A3 Fit for overseas training camp, to which transferred for hardening, prior to rejoining unit overseas A4 Fit for active service when of age (military) B1A1 Fit for light duty only - 4 weeks B1A2 Fit for overseas training camp in three to four weeks B1A3 Fit for overseas training camp in two to three weeks B1A4 Fit for overseas training camp when passed dentally fit B2B Unfit for overseas training camp six months, and temporally unfit for Home Service C1 Fit for Home Service only C2 Unfit for overseas temporarily unfit for Home Service C3 Permanently unfit for service Chasing the Bugle seams to mean being in gaol/captivity. Fovant is about 15kms W of Salisbury. Soldiers were garrisoned here in WW1 Major General Howse was Director of Medical Services in the Australian Army. R.B.A.A - Reserve Brigade Australian Artillery. Sutton Veny is about 30kms W of Bulford and Warminster is about 5 kms further.  They were large military bases during WW1. V.A.D stands for The Voluntary Aid Detachment, a voluntary organisation providing field nursing services mainly in hospitals, in the UK. 
 [Transcribed by Miles Harvey, Betty Smith for the State Library of New South Wales] 
 