of with provisions. After the provisions were unloaded we were told that the American Ambassador was coming to pay us a visit in an hours time. After 11.30 Mr. Phillips, attach to the American Embassy at Constantinople, arrived with his guard and servants. He sat down at a table in the shade of the building with the Turkish officers. We the English, were all fell in close by. He called upon the senior British prisoners to give an account of our treatment and complaints etc. He then asked how mahy of us there were and after finding out gave us each a Turkish pound (18/-). He then told us that the provisions were for us alone. He did not have the opportunity to say very much to us, we asked him if he thought we would be here for Christmas. He said he could not say, but if we were he would not forget the plum puddings. He also said he would not forget us when he got back to Constantinople. After this he inspected our quarters after which he gave the French a Turkish pound each and 36:0:0: amongst the Russians. This was a pity the Russians did not get more. Mr. Phillips explained that their interests were not in his hands and the money he gave them was on his own account. The food stuffs included tea, sugar, milk, jam cocoa, honey, biscuits, butter, a variety of tinned fish, and meats etc. All this was of the best brands. The following day the Ambassador Mr Phillips visited us again for a short time. He said that some arrangements would be made so that we would get a regular supply of provisions and money every month. After this instead of living on practically dry bread we commenced living on bacon and eggs, sausages etc. We very soon began to feel the benefit of this good living. August 15th we are visited by another Turkish Officer from Headquarters. He asked for complaints and expressed his pleasure whenever we told him that things had improved vastly. He also said that he wished us to be happy. 
The following day he came to the barracks again. We were all fell in with our new suits on and those who had none were given one. He then saluted us and went away. Aug.17th we start work again, on the roads, but when we get there we practically refuse to work until we get payment for same. The engineer comes along and promises that we will get money for the work we do, but still we refuse to work till we see the money as we have had experience of the Turkish promises. The sentries do not try to make us work. Aug.18th All the Armenians are driven from the town. The principle cause of it is the Armenians are Christians and all the business of the town is carried on by them. There is a very strong feeling against the Christians in this Country. At this time thousands of Armenians were turned out of these big towns to starve and thousands were massacred. This day we also get news of a big Russian Victory in the Caucaus capturing 2500 Turks. Also news of big reinforcements landed on Dardanelles Aug.19th Turkish paper says we have landed 5 divisions of troops on Dardanelles. August 20th while going to work we were