Record of A.E.11 from time of building at Barrow till time of being sunk in Sea of Mormora
Dimensions of A.E.11 
Length-170 feet   
Beam-	25 feet   
Tonnage- 800
Speed on surface-17 knots
Submerged- 9 knots
(Put this under photograph of A.E.II.)
at Masthead
Kangaroo on A.E.1
Emu on A.E.2
Cast in brass 9 inches.
The construction of AE1 and AE11 was commenced in the middle of the year 1912 at Vickers Ltd., Construction Yards, Barrow-in-Furness. AE11 was launched in the beginning of 1913 and was completed February 1914. The first part of her crew left Portsmouth for Barrow to stand by the boat sometime in November 1913, the remainder of the crew joining them in December of the same year.
The crew were allowed lodging allowance and lived in the town going into the yard every day to work on the boat.
We leave left Barrow for Portsmouth escorted by submarine parent ship Adamant on February 10th. On entering the Irish Sea we struck a heavy S.W. gale and were forced to take refuge in Holyhead Harbour for two days. The weather moderating we make another start on our journey, but the wind soon freshened up and was blowing as strong a S.W. gale as ever, so we were forced into Fishguard Harbour where we remained 3 days.
During this time the weather had moderated and we (proceeded on our journey) arriving at Portsmouth 18th February. On arrival we proceeded to the dockyard to have a gyro-compass and wireless fitted. We were the first submarines to have wireless transmitting gear fitted.
AE1 and 11 left Portsmouth escorted by the cruiser Eclipse on 2nd March 1914, to commence our the journey to Australia. While crossing the Bay of Biscay we lost a propeller blade and had to be taken in tow by the Eclipse. We arrive at Gibraltar on 6th and go into dock to have a new propellar blade in. We leave Gibraltar on 9th March for Malta, where we arrive on 14th March having steamed all the way.
AE 1 broke down on the trip and had to be towed. The Captain of the Eclipse recommended us on the splendid steaming we had done. We leave Malta 17th March for Port Said during this trip we encounter some heavy weather which caused the two to part several times. Arrived Port Said 21st March, and leave again on 24th March. We enter the Canal at daylight and go through on our own