Having left South Africa I sit down to write my impressions of it. After leaving Durban we were so universally unanimous about the open heartedness of the good British residents there (and I should add the Africaners too) that, had I sat down to write at once I would have "extolled to the skies" the South African Republic. But after Cape Town experiences I can now write a little more reservedly regarding some things, and I think with a little less blind enthusiasm.
We arrived at Durban about midday Thursday 14th Sept. The Bluff, as the entrance is called, has a fine noble appearance, and reminded the Gallipoli lads of the Peninsular hills because of the steep sides and close scrubby vegetation. The harbour is long and river like, and the town lies on the right side, and behind it lies a high ridge known as the Berea, resembling the highlands of Mosman Middle Harbour at Sydney. To our surprise the people were in crowds on all points of vantage gave us a hearty cheer as we entered. This was certainly calculated to gladden the hearts of the boys after the long dreary trip, especially as there were many nice looking girls amongst the assemblages. 
Next day, Friday 15th Sep., we were given general leave about midday, catching a ferry we soon crossed the harbour from the coaling wharf near the Bluff, and started to march up town. The column was a long one 1600 men, and as the boys were rather stiff, the marching was not too good. We reached the Town Hall, about a mile one half from the ferry, and then were dismissed. Before being dismissed however, the Mayor of the City extended to us the Freedom of the City and announced to us that there would be a Civic welcome to the overseas troops that evening, when he would preside! All trams were free and they refused to let us pay for many things in Restaurants cafes. There were many Church societies with Buffets writing rooms and conveniences, all ever ready to do anything possible for the old slouch hat, and in which we met some of the most whole hearted and genuine women it has ever been my pleasure to come in contact with, associated with War work. Hotels were all closed, so that the lads behaved splendidly, and really one felt proud to be wearing the Australian uniform with the pretty streets so full of disciplined well behaved "Wallabies" , who compared so favourably with the garrison troops of the towns.