<p class="page" id="a3900037">[Page 37]</p>
<p>and done with it, and a few days later we were all sent off to our right camp, Munster, where, on entering we were again searched.  It was here the Searching Officer discovered a 20 mark note that I had secreted in my shirt cuff, and sewn it up.  I had been searched five times previously, and none had found it, but this was a very thorough search.  All three of us had to strip, our pockets were then emptied, and any double seams well searched.  All our separate belongings were put in a heap by themselves.  I put mine into small bundles and placed them in a spare sock, and my mates also went into a sock.  The third man's things were tied up in a handkerchief.  Our search finished, and our clothes donned once more, we were faced about to go to yet another "Strafe" Barracks, but on going out I led the way and picked up the belongings that had been so carefully taken from me, the others doing the same, so that except for the money, we had all our goods with us, which meant a great deal to the other two, as they had some smokes amongst theirs, and so once more we were not so badly off as Fritz had intended.  On entering the "Strafe" Den, we found it to be the worst we had yet been in.  It was underground level 25 ft. by 15 ft. and contained 60 men.  The window was at one end, with fine mesh wire protecting it, then iron bars, and outside wooden a shutter, which, when down, made it as black as night.  Here, as before we were all nationalities, and now that one is away from it, it seems humorous to look back on a lot of the antics and tricks done there.  I remember one day, when two more Russians were pushed in, just as the guard was changing, the sentry on the door seemed too busy thinking of getting off to enter their names, so two Tommies put their coats on, summoned the guard and I told him that these two men had been shut in by mistake, while they had come down with a little food.   But he was wary, and made off.  I called him back, and told him to look at his book, and then count us.  At this he began to think that we were in earnest , and a mistake had been made, whereupon he looked up his entry register, and then counted us, and to our immense relief there were two too many.  It was a bold game to play, as we were not sure that the other two had been entered in the register, so took the chances and won.  Within an hour of their departure from us, they were back with some biscuits and bread strike for us /strike.  This they did each day.  Some days they would  not be allowed to come near us, but as soon as we noticed a "Sporty" sentry was on duty, the news would be sent up to the other boys, and along would come French, Russian, Belgian, Portugese and Britishers, anxious to help their "cobbers" in distress.  Of course, the sentry did well, as each one would give him a little to bribe him.  It is only in such cases as this, when Fritz will benefit himself, that he will show any partiality at all to a prisoner under his charge.</p>
<p>The following Saturday night will never be forgotten by at least three of us.  At about 11 p.m. when we were all asleep, lying with heads to either wall, and two deep down the centre, the door opened suddenly, and in '"Bunged" a drunken "Feldweble".  He caught the first man by the feet, and swung him across the room, yelling and cursing in his drunken frenzy.  The next man received the same treatment.  By this time we were all awake, and on our feet, trying to understand what was expected of us.  It appears he wanted us to line up and go into the lobby to be counted.  I strolled out with an air of contempt</p>
