(8) Sunday. Fine weather to day. One of our Aeroplanes met with an accident this morning and came to earth upside down, but the airman scaped uninjured. Took a stroll as far as the ruined village of "Le-Barque" and "Beaulencourt" this afternoon met several chaps in the 55th and 56th Bn who came from Australia in the same boat as myself. Had a peep over the remains of the "Bapuame" Cathedral on the way back to camp, a great heap of skulls piled up ion the crypt of the Cathedral, remains of the Revolutionaries.
(10) A party of N.C.O.s and myself from my Coy went up to have a look at our new position in front of "Bullecourt" on the way up we passed through the wrecked towns of "Vaulx" and "Nurieul" which the Germans had evacuated in a hurry but not before blowing the roadways up at the various crossings to impede our advance. A grate many dead lying about unburied both German and our own. Heavy snow storm this afternoon.
(11) The 45th Bn marched out from "Bapaume" about 1P.M and halted outside "Nurieul" untill dusk. A great many wounded making their way to the rear, the 4th Bde and portion of our Brigade made an attack on the enemy line near "Bullecourt" early this morning and held it about 4 hours, the enemy counter-attacked no less than 5 times, and our lads had to retire on their old positions haveing run out of Bombs and other munitions, the loss,es on both sides were enormous the field being littered with killed and wounded. The "Yanks" took part in the attack but were not such a great success on our front as they were in the North. A large enemy Shell burst among our Coy when moving into position and killed Cpl Dawes and 2 other lads and wounded several others, some were blown a great height into the air. An ammunition wagon drawn by 6 mules passing by at the time was blown to fragments, only 1 mule and Driver escaping. Another blinding snowstorm this evening, a great many Shells fell into "Nurieul" as we were passing through but we had no more casualties. We reached our line which was portion of a sunken road about 9 o,clock. Spent very cold night.