21) Church Parade this morning, Presberterians went to St Columbas Church . Preacher the Rev Lusk. Had a distinguished visitor to Hospital to day in the person of Sir Edmund Barton came round to see the boys he looks just the same old stick. Church service held in Town Hall to night.
(22) 23) 24) As per usual so on.
(25) Out to tea at Professor Butlers residence to night.(26)(27) Very cold indeed this morning, heavy frost. Went for stroll this morning, very heavy fog hung over the City this evening. Impossible to see 15 yards in front of you. Another splendid Concert given by the Town folk to night.
28) Heavy frost this morning. Went to Church Service this morning. Invitation to Mr Hunts residence this afternoon, they are grand old folk. Young Mr Hunt is Lieut in the local Regt is going to the front shortly, his brother was killed in France about 2 months ago.
(30) Still raining. St Andrews day. All Colonial Scots invited to dinner in Lincoln College this afternoon. Great festival.
December (10) Discharged from Hospital. A batch of 50 Australians were entrained for London, am very anxious to see this city we hear so much about.
(12) At Horseferry Road , Westminster. Met many of my old comrades at the "Anzac Buffet had yarns galore to tell each other.
(13) We received our furlough railway passes also a few quid set off to see the sights the Australians are well treated everywhere.
Xmas day. A party of 6 of us had dinner at Professor Butlers residence at Oxford, having promised to return there. And they made us quite at home. Packed up same night went to Scotland arriving there next morning. I travelled by the London Nor Western Railway I can assure you they travel some. I stayed at Mr J.M.Lauder,s residence in East London St. in the heart of the City. They are very nice people. The son Alex came from the Dardanelles in the same Hospital ship as myself. Another son is also home from the front having been wounded. And of course we go sightseeing together I can assure you there are some fine sights right here in Old Edinburgh, it is still more interesting to me knowing my dad came from these parts years ago. While here I have visited Edinburgh Castle twice, Holyrood Place Queen Marys, Famous Bath, Calton Hill with its relics of bygone days, Nelson Monument, also the unfinished Waterloo monument, , one can also get a splendid view of the City from this Hill. Paid a visit to Robert Burns memorial in Regent Rd the Municipal Museum where John Knoxs hat other articles the famous reformer wore are kept. Visited Lady Stairs House The Heart of Midlothian. John Knox House burial Place in the Royal Mile. Also the old Scottish Parliament Houses, the Grass Markets. The Murry House where the union between England Scotland was signed. The old Tool-Booth, Arthurs Seat, Lions Head, St Bernards Well. St Margarets Well, St Anthonys Chapel, St Giles Cathedral where John Knox preached so on, Queensferry, Forth Bridge, Portobello, Leith, Dudiston Loch, Rosyth numerous other places.