after bringing German prisoners to Sydney. About 200 hundred passengers. Boat left at noon sharp, and a great crowd was down to farewell us with the excellent weather we rounded South Head made for Melbourne. The following afternoon we ran into a very heavy storm could only see such places as Wilsons Prom the Islands in the strait through very heavy rain spray. On the morning of Oct 4th we made Port Phillip Bay about 7 am moored at Port Melbourne. Leave until midnight. Tram or rail to City. Tram system very inferior. Small light cars which have to be pushed over loops. City very fine being laid out on block system with fine wide streets. Parks magnificent eg. Bot Gardens Exhibition Park. The River is crossed by fine bridges, Princes? B?dge being best. St Kilda Rd runs from City over a bridge to St Kilda is the finest roadway in Australia. Divide for different classes of traffic is planted with trees for its entire length. Site of many fine residences. In suburbs the electric (overhead wires) tram is in vogue. Watering places are rare. Brighton St Kilda on the Bay being those which are most popular but are very inferior. No surf. Steamer to Geelong.
Oct 5th Today another 400 men have come on board being the 6th of 21st Batt. While they were embarking two stowaways got in through the port hole but were discovered before leaving the bay, though after casting off.
Oct 7th On Oct 7th after a beautiful run we made Adelaide (Outer Harbour) Breakwater. Here we were allowed a few hours leave visited Adelaide, 12 miles away by rail on R. Torrens. Adelaide is a very clean though small city with practically only two streets King William Rundle. Away to the north stretch the Mt Lofty ranges rising from the outskirts of the town itself where the fine residences are situate, among many fine orchards. The River too is a picture a great contrast to the Yarra. Port Adelaide is half way to Outer Harbour. Tramway system not too bad but the Public Buildings form a beautiful cluster of buildings in fine grounds, comprising Govt House, Uni, Museum etc. Leave Adelaide at 3 pm. Oct 13 The next few days were spent crossing the Bight in very heavy weather but on 13th we entered Fremantle Harbour which is open but protected by a fine breakwater.