The 75's are marvellous the shells bursting one after the other with great rapidity. They are invariably shrapnel. This morning one burst a couple of yards down the hill but no damage resulted. At about 10 am after watching an 18 pdr reply to the Turks fire we were ordered to Anzac Gully (Headquarters) then told off as reinforcements to the 2nd L.H. Field Amb. occupying a position at the foot of Victoria Gully. To-day a couple of cruisers monitors were bombarding Gaba Tepe by night we were all quite used to the bullets shells provided they didn't come too close.
Dec 8th This morning I have good time to survey the place. Away to sea is the Island of Imbros about 15 miles. The beach only a few yards away but is made particularly dangerous by a sniper on Gaba Tepe. The hills rise up abruptly from the sea are crossed with numerous gullies which were the scene of many a conflict on April 25th last. They are now named some after men who have distinguished themselves in that locality or after certain phases in the campaign. Away to the north the beach stretches till it comes to Suvla Bay where the English landed on August 6th. 
The trenches are only about a mile away the advanced portions are not as far to day as they were on the 25th April consequently there is not one place on the whole position out of range of even bullets. At places like Lone Pine Quinns Post the trenches are about 10 yards apart. This morning we have been making dugouts now the shells are quite common. The food is OK. This after noon we had to perform one of the two duties of a soldier which are to dig carry water, viz to carry water from shrapnel Gully. I also went to the 2nd Bgde LH trenches to look for Harry but found that he had recd a comm. was attached to the 6th Inf Batt.
Dec 9th Water fatigues along beach to Casualty Corner under direct fire of snipers on Gapa Tepe. I am not quite used to bullets yet when they kick up the sand at your feet etc. 
Dec 10th The feature of to-day has been a big bombardment of Gaba Tepe the Olive Groves by three cruisers, two monitors a couple of destroyers assisted by our land guns. The sight has been grand as spurt after spurt of flame runs along the entire length of each ship finds an echo in the clouds of dirt from Gaba Tepe. Guns are 6", 9.2" 12" naval 18 pdr land guns.