Wednesday 26th Big sick parade in am. 270 in all a lot of mumps patients and a lot of malingerers. In pm went to Cairo and cabled to thence to Mrs O?Rs. I then went to see the Sisters of Mercy at the Convent, they have prayed for me every day since I have been away. Got photos of Boys O.R's myself.
Thursday Rained bleakly all day spent time writing letters I got through a dozen. Everything points to me getting the sergeants position with the 12 LH when they reform, it is up to me to get a decent job now. There must be 200,000 Austs in Cairo now, there are camps everywhere Tel el Kebir is enormous. We hear the brigade is a bit split up one half being at Wardan and one Regiment at Katatbar, whilst another squadron is further out scouting on the enemy who are only a few miles away they are Senussis desperadoes.
Friday 28th We hear rumours of canal scraps and of our brigade and the Bedoins, the latter are now likely to forget their other hiding. This regiment is steadily growing stronger and now the strength is 80 to a troop. There are 2000 men in camp here altogether. Went to O?Rs at night.
Saturday 29th Jan Went to Received pay in morning and after lunch went out to Ghezireh to the races. I had an enjoyable day but an unfinancial one as I lost Too many of the Australian Turf riff raff are getting there and many make books whilst a lot of the boys are riding. They had a hurdle race for Aust Horses and it was a great joke it was won by Geramy ridden by Foley. Met a lot of old friends from the brigade. Apparently they are not having too good a time. Went to O?Rs at night.
Sunday 30th Jan. About 10 am. great rumours were flying around the camp. Then all the leave was stopped. Then the 8th LH were sent into town and the reserve Inf Battalion were issued with ball ammunition and despatched. It appears that the Egyptian Reservists were dissatisfied with their pay and the Arabs that were with the Camel Corp were getting more pay than them so they marched in a body to the Sultan's palace and a riot occurred and our chaps had to settle it and they did it properly. There were a few casualties but nothing to what was anticipated.