Sunday 23rd Paraded to Orderly Room in morning and was taken on strength. The W.O. is one of my friends and he gave me the best job he could, that of AMC Detail with the rank of Temporary Sergeant but no extra pay and only priviledges which are worth it for we live in the sergeants mess. I started work immediately with the mornings sick parade there are two others helping me and the Dr seems a decent sort his name is Capt Hill, we did a very large sick parade and I had a lot of dressings. Then I went on leave to O?R's and received a splendid welcome from Mrs O?R Family. Then in the midst of it, we heard a commotion at the door and in rushed my bonny two brothers, looking in splendid health, it was a touching meeting and one of my proudest moments as I shook hands kissed them for the first time all in uniform. After about two hours frantic questions we adjourned to a photographers where we had our photos taken Then we returned for tea, leaving for the tram about 10, the boys stopped in town and are returning to Tel el Kebir in a.m. If our mother could only have seen us to-day we met whilst she was at Church it was one of the happiest days of my life.
Monday 24th Got through a big sick parade in morning over 130. I do all the dressing rubbings massaging. I then went on leave to Cairo armed with about 10 different passes. Firstly I went for my long lost mail only to find it was at Alex. Then I had to go to the Pay Office to try and draw some of my back pay. They only gave me half of what I asked for from there I went out to Ghezhireh to the Aust Overseas Base and I got my black kit bag that I stored at Alex eight mos ago it was all intact, thence to Mrs O?Rs where I had a great talk to her about the boys. I returned home to find the Medical Tent shifted and I walked all over the camp before I found it. It rained heavily all night and I got wet through by Egypts annual rain.
Tuesday 25th Rained heavily all last night and to-day was the wettest and bleakest day I can remember ever in Egypt. Last year it was lovely at this time. To-day I received a splendid surprise when I walked into the P.O. here and was handed no less than46 letters being part of the bundle my mate has been holding for me, it took me a long time to read them they all contained good news, one the news I have been waiting for for mos.