Thursday 20th Jan. In the morning a big sea was running and the boat rolled about a lot, most of the Tommies officers were sick and we had a bit of our own back as we played steeplechases over them on the deck. A rumour says that a boat was torpedoed 12 hrs astern of us at 6 pm at the same spot that we passed at 6 am.
Friday 21st Jan We now hear that there were two boats torpedoed yesterday both French, one however escaped. We were too far ahead to take notice of their frantic SOS message, and it would have been useless to turn back, we presume she sank.
Arrived at Alexandria at 2.30 and safe in the harbour. Many a time in the recent few months have I wondered whether I would ever again be here.
Saturday 22nd Jan After a lot of humbugging we eventually disembarked after lunch. The infantry going to Tel el Kebir and the nine Light Horse all went to Cairo. We walked into the town thence took train to C. after a few hours leave eventually after the tedious journey we arrived there and I was immediately met by my good friends Lewis O?R whom I had previously wired. Then my disappoint came. Firstly my brothers had gone to Tel el Kebir and Lionel had only just left at six o'clock, Then we learnt that our brigade had gone away to Wardan on patrol a week ago, and full strength to so all was left for me to do was to go into our Detail Camp. 
My Chagrin was pitiful after 18 mos soldiering here I am back as a reinforcement, my luck has been proverbial then as our reward for what we had done on Gallipoli they gave us two sweaty smelling saddle blankets to sleep in, I was so angry that I walked about all night and learnt all the news off the guards but that will come later. It has been one of the cruellist blows I have ever had as moreover I was promised and assured of a sergeants position and now what am I ? only a recruit again with men who enlisted only a few months ago and I with five engagements 18 mos service ? Ough --- In the morning I will learn my fate as to my future intentions