giving concerts at which I recited then to the Recreation room where we were entertained by a concert party at which the Governor of the Island Lord Methuen thanked us for what we had done. Our Xmas Tea was wholly provided by our sisters who bore all the expense. They gave us a delicious feast and we will never forget their kindness. At night time everyone was happy and many were two happy. It was a perfect day followed by a perfect night and as I did not feel like retiring I sat up nearly all night with the night sister and did the orderlie's work as he was incapable. It was one of the happiest Xmas's I have ever spent.
Boxing Day Dec 26th I rec a welcome letter from O?R family this morning with Xmas wishes card also a note from my young brother who is apparently in Cairo and I have been writing to him in Alexandria. I asked the Dr could I go convalescent to-day and thereby get back to Egypt where we believe the rest of the Austs are. He agreed and I will soon be back in Khakhi. Wrote home sending photo
Monday Dec 27th Quiet after Xmas festivities, went for a walk around the shore in the morning with the night sister, she is a bright little Irish Colleen from County Cork. Have heard no news from any of the fronts lately.
Tuesday Dec 28th We hear that there is likely to be big trouble in Egypt shortly so I am trying to get back there without going convalescent
Wednesday Dec 29th Rec an order that I was to go down and get my clothes and be in readiness for the convalescent camp. I was very pleased to be back in khakhi again almost as pleased as when I got back to civilian clothes again. However we did not go to-day There are six out of our ward nearly all Austs. I suffered a little at night with insomnia so got up and sat before the fire with the little night sister. She loves my poems and would go further if I allowed her, she is a dear little Irish girl and that is all to me.
Thursday Dec30th We did not go away to-day and after attending a football match we decided to break out in a party of four and go into Valletta