a squad of Aust LH men doing C.B. and they are all longing to see me with them. Many false alarms about Egypt. The mail boat Persia that called here a few days ago has been torpedoed. Could not get away again to-day. N.S.A night. 
Wednesday 5th Jan. At last the news has come, they are making a big clearance out of the hospital to-day 110 Convalescents are going into camp. We formed up at 4.30 and were marched to the orderly room. Thence the long procession set off for All Saints about a mile a half. We got a great send off from the other inmates my two mates I were at the rear so we waited and got a cab drove up whilst the others lugged their packs up a steep hill. We arrived at the camp and were designated to tents, we were fortunate in not being separated and four of us are in the one tent, after going to the canteen we retired on to our hard beds and simply froze all night through cold and we only had two thin blankets.
Thursday 6th. In the morning we were busy making our single beds into double so as to get extra warmth. Then we were medically inspected I had a job to pass the doctor, as I paraded for active service then we were put on the pay roll and we had the rest of the day to look around this splendidly equipped camp, it is a real home but is full of fellows who intend staying here for the duration, I am ashamed of some the Australians, men who have only seen a quarter of the service I have, and are yet dodging the firing line. I feel quite proud of my record in comparison. My wife I slept warmly last night as we cuddled up under four blankets. Rec two letters from my brothers.
Friday 7th We were paid in morning and went on leave in pm and had a rattling good time in Valletta Messudich Sliema had my little mate mine's photo taken, we returned home in time to enjoy a splendid concert given by English civilians in the beautifully equipped Y.M.C.A. tent.
Saturday 8th. Went down to St Gs and saw who were left of the old patients of G. then we went into Sliema and walked home. It is a jolly shame to see the number of men walking about here who are swinging the lead for the duration of the war. I thank Heaven I am proud to say I have not shirked