Saturday Oct 30th Derby Day in Melbourne and the same as other days on Gallipoli, the same old routine, although everything points to a move shortly. We have not lived so well lately, the beef bread that was for us was washed off the barges during the recent rough weather.
Sunday Oct 31st We hear that there has been a bit of an advance at Helles, our sapping party were fired on to-day. C.P. by Capt Green. at the my mates swim To go one of us must always be near the dressing station.
Monday 1st Nov. I received a sturdy mail two letters from my brothers papers letters from friends in Egypt including a p.c. written in French which I translated. Our patrol went out last night to try capture a Turkish patrol but returned unsuccessful. Good all round news from the fronts but no word of us going away and yet other brigades keep coming back.
Tuesday 2nd Nov Cup day in Australia, every man is talking about his luck at being here, there is a sweep on it but we don't even know the starters. Wrote a lot of letters to my Brothers, sent many to home
Wednesday 3rd Nov A glorious sunny day followed by a perfect night, there was a wonderful sunset over Imbros Scrannathos Islands. The 4th 1st Brigades are back They say they had a wretched time at Lemnos. The 2nd Brigade are still there sickness has broken our rather badly amongst them. rumours that there is to be an attack on Sunday
Thursday 4th Nov Big mail in but no Victorian letters arrived yet. About nine pm just as we were going to bed a terrible amount of rifle fire started near Walker's and they seemed to go round to Lonesome Pine. The fire became very fierce and we all had to stand to arms in readiness for two hours not knowing what the attack was.
Friday 5th Nov It has transpired what happened last night part of the 2nd Brigade LH had been out the previously night and commenced digging a big firing trench nearer the Turkish lines, but when they went out last night the Turks attacked them and there were heavy losses on both sides 3 of our men being killed. Rec 8 letters but all of a back date so I have a lot yet to get ? rec some more canteen stores.