<p class="page" id="a7927025">[Page 25]</p>
<p>deal of pain to the arm which would have been unbearable but for the morphia injection. The bearers did their utmost to minimise the movement and were really splendid. The nerves were in such a state with the shock that one imagined that each shell screaming on its way overhead was going to burst first over the stretcher. It was a terrifying experience but eventually we arrived at the Regimental Aid Post in Bull's Rd. near Br. H.Q. where Dr. Embleton was in charge. He examined the ticket pinned on at the forward aid post and after getting me a cup of hot tea looked to the bandages to make sure everything was right for the next stage of the journey. Then with a cheery word and good wishes he gave the word to the fresh stretcher bearers to proceed.<br/>They carried from the 2nd aid post to the valley near the road from Deville Wood to Flers where was the terminus of a light tramway on which were pushed trucks each carrying 2 stretchers. The intervening ground between these 2 spots was very rough and uneven, but as usual the bearers did their utmost to reduce movement and jarring. About midway across Major Milligan, the Brigade Major of the 1st Bde. met us to wish me a speedy recovery, and from him I learned that General Glassfurd had been buried away to the rear.<br/>Just below our Bde. H.Q. Davies , my batman, came along with my shaving gear and odds and ends which were placed on the stretcher under m y head. I was glad to see him and left him with a message for Rid and Leo.<br/>The journey on the tramway was fortunately not a long one for at each junction of the rails there was a jolt and a jar and once with a bump the truck ran into another truck or something. By this time too, one was chilled through and through and completely numb in the extremities.<br/>The forward dressing station outside Delville Wood was a real haven of rest. The burst of shells seemed far removed and there was a greater air of peace. The stretchers were carried into a tent warmed up by a fire, which was perhaps just as well for they here removed my wet muddy things-in most cases cutting them off- and dressed me in warm Red Cross pyjamas. This was the first contact with the Red Cross but I was destined later to see and enjoy much more of the excellent work this organisation does for the sick and wounded. The trench boots I thought would be useful to Leo and me, and the A.M.C. orderly   promised to send them over to him; I was of course, quite unaware that at this time he himself was lying in a hospital. The bandages were removed and the arm and hand washed free of mud with warm water and soap and the place rebandaged and a cane splint put on. A very welcome cup of hot tea came after another injection of morphia, then they wrapped blanket round me on the stretcher and carried it out to the motor ambulance. This is built to take 4 stretchers in 2 tiers and being the last case for the car I occupied  a top berth. Just as I was about to be lifted in one of the A.M.C. orderlies came up and asked if Waterhouse was not my name. It proved to be</p>
