<p class="page" id="a7927012">[Page 12]</p>
<p>good deal of chaffing in which the women showed a knowledge of most of the stock Arabic phrases, learned  from Australian troops who had preceded us. Most showed they knew Pidgin English, but I was struck with the pretty French of many of the youngsters hanging on to their mother's skirts.<br/>At one crossing a long convey of heavy motor lorries laden with bales of fodder and munitions of various kinds was noticed on its was up to the railway station. Forming part of a long-drawn-out goods train close by were a number of trucks each carrying a businesslike long-range gun of perhaps 6 inch calibre- my first acquaintance with the French artillery. All the men at work in the railway yard with the exception perhaps of the French Officer in charge of the station looked long past military age. This impression that the eligible men of France were all away at the front was to be greatly deepened and strengthened during the next few days.<br/>Our train was drawn up and ready and the entraining party had allotted units to definite portions of the train, the number to go into each carriage being clearly chalked on the door. The actual entraining thus took only a short time. The train comprised some 50 odd carriages of 1st, 2nd and 3rd class and some covered trucks containing the rations for consumption on the journey. 8men went to a compartment and with the long journey in view this did not allow over-much space to the men. Most of the officers travelled together in a corridor carriage, but Prescott and I had a compartment about the middle of the train in which we kept a lot of the company's rations to be issued from time to time. The others spent much of the time playing cards but we were quite content to put in all the time seeing the country passed through. Prescott proved a fine travelling companion.<br/>We got away punctually at 2.30pm amid cheers from the men on board and commenced our 7oo mile journey across France, a journey that proved to be one of the most interesting parts of the campaign. First came a heavy drag up to the high ground above Marseilles. Our engine was a very powerful looking one, but in this part we had the help of another  heavy engine pushing behind; even so we made slow progress up the steep grades which in France are higher that those in Australia.<br/>The exercise in marching from boat to train had thoroughly warmed us and we were wearing heavy things in anticipation of a cold journey so that the cold did not worry us much. Emerging from a deep cutting in which it was noticed that slabs of excavated stone were cemented in like tiles, a glorious view overlooking the Marseilles and the harbour'</p>
