<p class="page" id="a7927026">[Page 26]</p>
<p>Mr Elder Junior Supr. of the Rockdale S.S. and it was fine to meet an old friend in these surroundings. The various things from my pockets, badges from tunic etc. were all carefully wrapped up in a triangular bandage and put with my shaving gear in the haversack.<br/>Then commenced the long and painful journey back to the Casualty Clearing Station at Heilly some 20 kilometres (12 &frac12; miles) distant. The roads were in a fearful state. Here an unnoticed shell hole full of mud and slush would cause a sickening lurch as the wheel sank into it. There a faggot of wood or other object that had fallen off a passing transport would jar everything as the car passed over it. Then would come a sudden stop as the brakes were jammed on owing to a block in the traffic. So the tedious journey proceeded, to the accompaniment of groans from several of the inmates, one of whom had a bad head wound. Through the back of the ambulance one caught occasional glimpses of the dreary shell splattered country through which we were passing, but for the most part one lay in a semiconscious state as a result of the morphia absorbed and just longed for the journey to come to an end. Repeated enquired by the head case as to how much further we had to go elicited the invariable reply from the driver that it was only about a hundred yards further!<br/>The day dragged on and gradually the light faded. Soon after nightfall the car came to a stop and flashing lanterns and hurrying forms showed that at last we were at last we were at the C.C.S.  In a very short time the stretcher was lifted out and carried to the operating tent where the wound was examined and a piece of metal bent round the bone and several fragments of bone were removed. Brandy and soda was given immediately afterwards and then the stretchers removed to another tent to make room for the next case. Here I was delighted to see Capt. C.C.Minty who when he found that I had had my last meal in the early morning insisted on sending a tray of dinner from their mess, but the cup of tea was all I felt inclined for.<br/>Presently I was marked up for a certain ward which turned out to be a large marquee wherein were a number of pretty bad cases. Recollections of what occurred here are rather vague and confused. I remember 2 sisters looking after me, doing the dressing from time to time, injecting morphia and so on. In the next bed was an officer shot through the lung to whom a padre was administering the sacrament. When the screens were afterwards removed it turned out to be Lieut. Rowe of the 5th Aus. Eng., a man who had been doing 3rd year Engineering at the University  and used to attend the same Bible Circle. I completely lost sight of him until about June 1917 when as I was lying in Randwick Hospital he walked in looking quite well but with a bullet still embedded within a quarter of and inch of his heart.<br/>More than once Capt. Malcolm Scott came to see how</p>
