<p class="page" id="a7927024">[Page 24]</p>
<p>close by for transmission to our Bde. H.Q. so that they might make arrangements to get the General back with the utmost speed.<br/> The men came back for me as soon as the General was in the comparative safety of the trench and carried me over. Scarcely had I been laid in the muddy bottom than another shell landed on the hard roadway at the entrance to Chalk Trench, narrowly missing a party of 4 stretcher bearers who were hurrying down from the Co.H.Q. for General Glassfund. After rendering first aid, these 4, one at each handle of the stretcher and 4 more accompanying them as a relief carried the general back to the forward aid post in Grass Lane. Afterwards I learned that in spit of every effort the General only lived for about 24 hrs. He was a splendid soldier and greatly loved by his men of the 12th Inf. Bde.<br/>Presently my turn came. After giving me a good drink from a water bottle to relieve the burning thirst, the men placed a field dressing on the wound from which the jagged ends of bone were protruding and I was lifted onto a stretcher and carried to the forward aid post. This had been a German dressing station prior to the capture of Flers and Guedecourt , and consisted of a short tunnel into the embankment of Grass Lane with some wood work as a roof which made it a fairly conspicuous object. It had suffered to some extent from shell fire although neither side had, I think deliberately shelled it. Not far away was a derelict "tank" much battered by enemy guns,-deliberately this time of course.<br/>There were other casualties awaiting attention but my turn soon came. Injections of antibiotic serum to morphia, were given, the sleeves of raincoat, tunic and shirt cut away and the wound painted with iodine and bandaged up. The arm was then bound to the side in lieu of a splint and a much needed blanket wrapped round me on the stretcher for it was a miserably cold, dull day. A card giving rank, name, unit, nature of casualty, treatment given in way of injections and so on was pinned on to the blanket, the main object being to save the patient the bother of replying to all these queries at the various stations passed through, besides as acting as a guide to further treatment.<br/>The journey back on the stretcher then commenced and is not likely to be forgotten soon. The ground everywhere was pitted with shell holes, the intervening spaces being soft and muddy and in many places very slippery. The straw stubble indicated that not very long previously it had been under cultivation to some cereal crop. As a consequence of all this the 4 men carrying the stretcher had hard work and progress was slow and difficult; each lurch of the stretcher and sudden jar caused a good</p>
