 [Page 110] 
 Moascar 8/3/16 Civilians appear to be at a discount, Ismailia is thronged with troops, British &amp; Colonial! Leaving the town we plugged along through heavy sand for about 2 miles and through hundreds of tents moved to our camping ground and compactly piled arms. After lunch a party marched down for a swim. We picked up 2 officers &amp; other details there and later erected some tents and settled down. We are only here for a few days leaving soon for Europe. All the other battalions of the brigade are camped here too. Some backsheese at the QM's store and new hats of which I got one. Paid Alderson 75 p.t. for snaps and Conway 50 p.t. for a "gorblime" cap. Prices in Cairo are graded according to rank. In a bagnio a Lieut has to pay 5 p.t. for a whisky a Captn. 10 and a Major 15 p.t. Such rooks! 
 In my company are three jockeys, Snowden McMullen and another, little stunted weeds who cannot keep up with the others when marching but are good little soldiers who do their work well and give no trouble. 
 Thomsen's story of J.Thomas at the lats. "Gimmee piece of paper." Carl duly handed same up "I wonder how far it is out to the b &ndash; warships" 3rd party "As the crow flies?" J.T. (after much deliberation) "F&mdash;the b&mdash;crows!" 
 No wonder women are such a power in diplomatic circles. All movements of troops and location of officers and their abilities, ups &amp; downs &amp; questions of command are freely discussed and in an officer's azbacia one can in a few minutes obtain from the residents there a surprising amount of confidential and accurate news. 
 Recalling the fleas and lice in Gallipoli dugouts there were nights when in agony one would get out of bed and walk the trenches. The fleas used to draw blood and one would toss &amp; turn, positively hurting oneself in tossing from side to side. Some beer going round the lines tonight after our exile in the wilderness and a good deal of singing. Trains passing and an occasional glimpse of a civilian remind us we are near civilization. Bed 2100 
