(28) Fine weather. Arrived at Lemnos about 10 A.M. this morning after a splendid trip. A great many warships lying at Anchor here, mostly French. The Ship's Captain myself went aboard Headquarters ship H.M.T. Arogon this afternoon for orders. Heard we have lost 2 more Warships in the attack on Dardanelles, we are finding it a very hard nut to crack.
(29) Paid another visit to H.M.T. Arogan this morning to see Cpt Dunlop in reference to our being sent to join or Battn got the same old promises. The big Cunard liner "Mauretania" arrived this morning with 5,500 British troops aboard, she is a splendid ship.
(30) Beautiful weather. We are still lying at anchor, this job getting us down. They have over 700 Turkish Prisoners of War on Lemnos. They keep them nobbing making roads.
(31) S.S. Tunisian came alongside our ship this morning crowded with British troops , composed of the Royal Dublin Fusilers, Munster Fusilers, Lanearshire Fusilers, Essex Regt other details.
June 1st Still lying at anchor. Munster Fusilers left to day for Seddul Bahr, also Field Artillery (We gave a decent burial to some cheese,s which by the smell of them, have been dead for some time, should have been used against the Turks for noxious gases)
(2) As per usual still Idle. Took stock of stores aboard ship this morning, will report to Headquarters tomorrow, at the same time must make another effort to get rid of this job.
(3) Fine Weather. The H.M.T. Vaderland (Southland) came alongside our ship this morning she is a fine big vessel. We had invitation on board from Chief Steward for lunch took advantage of it they blew our kite out properly.
(4) We took about 600 of our own lads on board this afternoon for Gaba Tepe arrived here at 11P.M. tonight. Plenty of rifle fire going on ashore. We are looking forward to popping off with this batch of troops in the morning.
(5) Raining strong winds blowing, sea coming up very rough. Unable to land the Troops Ship had to leave Gaba-Tepe at 9.30, the boys all ready for hopping off. Heavy fireing going on, Shells bursting over our landing stage.
(6) Weather clearing up. All boys went ashore in lighters towed by naval pinnaces 3 A.M. this morning. All anxious for a dust up. joined my old Bn, lots of my old mates still going strong but many faces missing, Some of the lads had heard that the ship I was doing Guard duty on had been torpedoed, looked rather surprised when they saw me. Parsons myself went down to Anzac this morning for a dip, but of course had our plesure spoilt by the Turks shelling.
(7) Fell in for duty this morning was attached to No 6. Platoon B. Coy left gully at 7 A.M. went up on "Walkers Ridge" to do some sapping in support trenches. Plenty of stray bullets flying around, a bloke wants to keep his nut down or he will quick get it smacked. The place fairly reeks with dead bodies other unsanitary arrangements, of course it cannot be helped. The only time they can get to bury the dead is at night time there is always a risk.