(15) Still lying at anchor. Troopships continue to arrive with fresh troops. Heard that our Australian Submarine A.E.2 had got into the "Sea of Marmora" had been captured by the Turks her crew made prisoner. Lt Col Newmarsh O.C on board our ship, paraded before him this morning in reference to getting this job as we are full up with this game. He promised to do his best for us.
(16) Beautiful day. Making preparations for another move, lots of medical stores taken off also A.M.C. men belonging to the Royal Naval Division who are to do duty in Egypt.
(17) Left Lemnos about 6 A.M. this morning passed "Nikaria Island" about 5.30P.M which was steaming home. I had several of the R.N. Division handed over to me to augment my Ships Guard.
(18) Having fine weather at sea glorious Sunshine "Tommie" Officers making things lively for their men, they have them scrubbing down decks every morning needless to say the "gresey Greek crew dont raise any objections.
(19) Arrive at Alexandria at 7.30 A.M. this morning after a smart passage. The R.N. Division all disembarked here went into Camp at "". Our sick wounded were taken off and sent to Heliopolis San Stefano Hospitals. Having very warm weather here.
(20) Waiting for orders as for our next move. Had a stroll round the City. Egyptians making great preparations for the Sultan Huessian who arrives here next Monday. The principal parts of the City to the Palace at "Ras-el-Tin" are gaily decorated with venetian poles flags, mostly "Gyppo" flags.
(21) Went along to "Bosto" as they call the Post Office to post some letters for the boys at the front. Some of the Australian troops who are still camped here had a box-on with some sailors off the American Cruiser "North Carolina had a win, many on both sides finished up with bent faces.
(22) Fine weather. Ships taking in Coal, water provisions. Major Gordon his 30 A.M.C men took their medical stores baggage aboard Troopship "Werflingen" which is leaving tonight for the Dardanelles, we also receive orders to join her.
(23) Here we are again back on the "Osmanieh" they told us we would have to remain here until relieved. Very amusing, no one seems to want us, keep on smiling. Went into the City this afternoon to see his royal nibs the Sultan arrive, what a gay turn out to be sure, he had a great welcome. A mob of wild Australians ran amok in the town again tonight the niggers flew in all directions. (why not)
(24) Grand old Empire Day. Received good news that Italy at last decides to make war on Germany Austria about time too. Many patriotic demonstrations in the City.
(25) Fine weather. Had a visit from a Warrant Officer from Ordnance department this morning, handed over to him all spare rifles ammunition had invitation aboard S.S. Anselma de Farringa from Chief Officer Duncan of Liverpool spent a couple of hours card playing.
(26) We left Alexandria this morning at 6 oclock for Lemnos. Captain received orders to steer different course this time owing to Submarine being reported. We indulge in some rifle shooting to day at floating targets just to keep our hand in. Steaming with all lights out tonight. Sea very calm.
(27) Fine weather. Passed by the Island of "Crete" more rifle shooting to day. Ships captain has a shot also he is not a bad old "Bird". Splendid scenery along Greek coast Steaming with all lights out tonight. Held a "miniature" banquet tonight the Cap Ship Engineer being present, the skipper thinks a lot of our boys.