24th) Wide awake again at 5.A.M. this morning after a beautifull sleep and dreams of "Home Sweet Home". Things got really lively on our left this morning when the 18th Battln 5th Brigade which landed a few days ago, and were under fire for first time made a great charge, but when things appeared to be going well they were ordered to retire. And it was then that the Turks machine guns cut them up. They lost many men. We had 2 Companies of the 17th Battln attached to us, our own strength is about 320 men, our ranks have been thinned out since the 6th. Turkish Artillery "whacking" plenty of shells into our bivouac this afternoon but do no damage, everybody being well under cover.
25) Had another good nights rest. Our Howitzer guns do some good shooting this morning, dropping high explosives into enemy trenches and shifting things generaly at the same time. (Received news from Home Sweet Home). Lieut Boccard and myself went over to our old trenches on "Saliers Post" this afternoon to find most suitable place for instructing bomb throwers from the 17th 18th Battlns. On our way back Turkish snipers opened fire on us and you should have seen us trying to break all sprinting records, we had not very far to go, but before we were far across Lieut Boccard staggered, and fell having been shot in the stomach lost no time in getting him into a place of safety and shouted for stretcher bearers who are always ready to do their duty and Dr Purvey who was quickly on the scene, soon dressed the wound and hurried him off to "Anzac" Dr says it was very bad wound but there was a chance of recovery.
26) Stand to arms at 4 A.M. this morning, but nothing doing. Spent the rest of the morning giving instruction in Bomb Throwing to 17th 18th Battln and my own party. The lads shaped very well. Turk artillery indulge in a little shooting this afternoon and drop several close to water wells. Rough weather coming up from Sou-west, guess we are in for a wet night. Got busy and rigged up water-proofs for cover.