(29) Beautiful Day, easily the best since my stay in England. The sun shone for fully 3 hours which is going some in this country at this time of the year.
(31) Inspection by Lt Col Courtney C.B this morning, the men that are going in this draft served out with gas helmets, field dressings etc etc.
Feb (1) Turned out at 4.30 this morning. Left Monte Video Camp at 6 A.M. 50 officers 500 men marched to the Weymouth Railway Station,. entrained left here at 8 o,clock arrived at Plymouth at 3.P.M. embarked aboard H.M.T Saturnia, there were a large number of troops already on board from various Regts, quite a mixture, Norfolk Regt, Middlesex, A.S.C A.O.C R.E. Royal Flying Corps, Lincoln Yeomanry, Scottish Horse, Lovats Scouts, Fife Forfar yeomanrynd our own birds, we numbered 3000 altogether, a nice haul for a German Submarine. Ships O.C. 1st Col C.E. Fishbourne an Imperial Officer.
(2) Left Devonport at 11.30 this morning, escorted by 2 Destroyers after leaving port encountered heavy weather, boys start to feed fishes so on, felt a ticklish sensation in the neck myself, but managed to hold my own. A Submarine Guard mounted, to keep an eye open for the tin fish.
(3) Very rough. Ship doing all kinds of acrobatic feats
(5) Sea much calmer. Naval men have a few shots out of 4.7 gun which is mounted aft in case of a Submarine attack. Shooting not too good, might hit something if they had a dish of rice.
(12) Fine weather. Passed a British Cruiser steaming west this evening. Also a large Transport escorted by a light Cruiser making towards Alexandria. Many Trawlers doing patrol work around these parts.
(13) Arrived at Alexandria at 7P.M this morning anchored inside breakwater near Ras-el-Tin Light-House. A great many vessels in port mostly Troopships Hospital ships. The Imperial disembarked at midday marched to Mustapha Pacha Barracks. Australian Troops entrained at 11P.M for Cairo.
(14) Cold in train travelling all night. Arrived in Cairo at 5 A.M. marched out to "Gizeah" camp about 5 miles from station. Received orders to be ready to move off again to "Zeitoun". Left "Gizeah" 2P.M arrived at "Zeitoun" 4.30P.m just in time for Tea, Attached to B. Coy A. Class details.
(15) A great number of troops in camp mostly new arrivals from Australia. Went out top our Base depot and obtained my Black Kit Bag which I had left behind last April, After a search found it among the dead mens kits.
(26) Battln out for a route march today through "Mataria" to the "Virgins Well"
March 5th Left Zeitoun for Tel-el-Kebir at 8 this morning arrived at midday. Reported to Adjutant was attached to B. Coy 13th Bn. This is a great Camp and there are between 12,000 13,000 troops under canvas. Met several of my old Pals here. Many of the old 13th have gone into new Battns just formed called the 45th Am thinking of transferring myself. More to follow - DiddieX