<p class="page" id="a2680004">[Page 4]</p>
<p>explosive which passed the funnels and exploded not far from the Sydney's second starboard gun, that is a gun on the unengaged side of the ship. The high explosive set fire to some paint &amp; some cordite ready for loading. Some<br/>of the gun's crew picked up this cordite &amp; dumped it overboard, burning themselves in doing so, but  saving the ship from fire. They had just finished when a second shell, said to be shrapnel exploded behind them. Almost every portion of the gun bore some mark of  the fragments of the explosion but curiously enough the gun itself was absolutely uninjured. Of the gun's crew<br/>however only two escaped, two being killed and the rest injured. The second hit was from a shell which passed over the shoulder of the gunnery lieutenant in another fire control position, &amp; struck &amp; struck a youngster who was sitting at a range finder behind him, stunning him, taking one leg off at the thigh &amp; killing him instantly. A fourth shot tore a great hole in the forecastle deck &amp; left its traces all over the flay below, tearing the men's kitbags to shreds, destroying tables &amp; chairs but doing little other damage. This was the last damage the Emden did. Her failure to hit after the first quarter of an hour must have been due in the first place to the mental suffering her crew had been undergoing the awful hail of shells that now began to fall upon them, but from this time also, one by one her guns began to disappear. Smoke was pouring from every part except the forecastle, &amp; finally as she doubled again she was hidden from the Sydney by a cloud of smoke &amp; seized firing altogether. The Sydney's men thought that she had sunk or surrendered but in the midst of their cheering she emerged she emerged and began firing again. Gun after gun on the Emden ceased firing &amp; time after time bodies were seen floating about in the water. An explosion had made havoc of the deck just aft of the bridge; the second funnel hung over the side as though   draped from the gunwale, the inner case lolling out of its mouth into the water. The last &amp; only funnel subsided &amp; lay across the second one, the smoke from all three pouring along the deck. From the bridge aft she seemed one continuous fire. At last only one little gun was left, a gun forward on the port side, which spat viciously &amp; occasionally with long intervals between shots. The Emden was so crumpled that it was impossible to get ammunition up through the hoists so that ,each time this gun fired, it merely showed that some instalment of ammunition had arrived by hand. At a certain stage in the fight there had appeared a merchantman. This ship appeared anxious to join in the fight so suspecting that she may be a merchant cruiser, the Sydney kept a few gun's trained on her but did not fire. The ship turned out to be a collier summoned by the Emden to meet her there. She seemed to come up with the intention of helping the Emden &amp; at one time it is stated she intended ramming the Sydney. The idea was a very gallant one but absolutely hopeless as the Sydney's engines were capable of any speed called for, whereas the collier could only do 10 knots. When the result of the action became obvious the collier made off. With every portion of her on fire except the forecastle, with her stern actually red hot &amp; the smoke pouring out of three holes in the deck where the funnels used to be the Emden was turned towards North Keeling Island to prevent her sinking. The German  colours &ndash; a white ensign with  a big black cross &ndash; was still flying from the mainmast, those on the foremast having been shot away. Almost to the end this solitary gun barked at intervals. Then the Emden ran high up on the corals &ndash; her nose high out of the water. A short stretch of seething surf alone separated her from the shore.</p>
