<p class="page" id="a7564020">[Page #]</p>
<p>expected to be up against it, the harbour was said to be mined and fortified and it was confidently expected that the biggest part of the German fleet would be found there. But, unfortunately, the draw was an absolute blank. The Destroyers searched an adjacent harbour that night, but again found nothing, and in the morning they went in again at daylight to land a party and destroy the wireless station. And now comes the first of the extroardinary behaviour which would make our show a comedy if later it had not become a tragedy. The Flagship either had not tried or had not been able to get information as to the whereabouts of the wireless station and this information was naturally necessary for a successful attack on it. Commander (D.) as the most obvious way of getting information,(?), steamed up near the pier and shouted through a megaphone to the Germans hospitably waiting for us on the end of it "Where is your wireless station?" Despite the ingenuousness of the question the German, who happened to be the Mayor of Rabaul and so a man of great cunning, was cautious and said "I do not know". Casting about in his mind for a way out of this impasse (D) bethought him of Whiteman, an English trader living at Rabaul, and cheerily tried again with "Where is Whiteman?", "I do not know" again came the answer and in aside the Mayor sent up two men who promptly removed Whiteman, (then coming down the pier to meet our landing party which he naturally expected,) at the pistol point. And so went our best chance of gaining information, for this man had an intimate knowledge of all that we most needed to know. Once again (D) tried and naively asked if he had any warlike stores in the sheds. "We have copra only" said the German George Washington, saving us the trouble of looking to see. Since we have found there was, amongst other things, twelve thousand tons of coal in the neighbourhodd. "Parramatta" was the (at her own request) allowed to go down to Herbertschoe and investigate. The officer in charge of the landing party having taken a couple of prisoners, among them a native who appeared likely to give some information if removed from the influence of the Germans, reported the same &amp; and was promptly ordered to release the prisoners at once. Our ships destroyed the post offices and this was the sole result of our first attack on Rabaul &#151; if we except the achievements of having burnt all our coal &amp; oil and informed the German ships of our whereabouts.<br/>Flag now departed to escort the N.Z. Expedition to Samoa and the rest of the Squadron concentrated at Rossell Island with the exception of the submarines who had not yet come North. Here they lay for some days coaling and oiling and then dispersed on various duties. While at the island they lay inside the lagoon. No patrol was kept during the night "because no ship could get in during the night" and usually lights were kept burning up till about ten at night. What was to prevent any ship from coming up during the night and waiting till daylight and then comfortably shelling us at anchor I don&acute;t quite know, nor indeed do I think they did. Melbourne left here and went away I am not quite sure where, and ditto Encounter. Sydney went to meet our Expeditionary Force and bring them up to Moresby and Destroyers went to the latter port and were entrusted for some three weeks with the defence of this port and the shipping, including a troopship; if</p>