<p class="page" id="a6798005">[Page 5]</p>
<p>then 14 days In the support line mainly doing repair work to trenches and fatigue work. Later we moved to Ypres,  Winter was on the way,  "Whites Reserve", and we held the line there for some weeks.<br/>What a pleasant shock we received when we were told that we were to be taken away from shell fire to St. Omer for 2 or 3 weeks.I believe It was the longest spell away from it all since we arrived in France in March 1916.<br/>After our spell and with fresh reinforcements we moved to Poperinge ( Belgium) and the Ypres sector,  Zomnebeke and Zillebeck Lakes.Plans were made for the Battalion to attack and take Westhoeck Ridge. The attack succeeded but as usual suffered heavy losses. The whole area,  especially around the lakes,  was a sea of waist high mud. After a short spell we were sent in to attack and advance as far as Broodslnde Ridge. The enemy seemed to have the wind up as they were sending up S.O.S. flares indicating that they were being attacked and that they needed artillery support. Similar flares were sent up all along their line.We gained our objective with slight losses. The vast sea of mud proved a greater obstacle than the enemy. To allow artillery and supplies to reach the forward area a road of fallen trees was laid from Hellflre Corner and was know as the Corduroy Road.<br/>This road was continuously shelled by enemy artillery and casualties were frequent. The road had to be cleared. This resulted in each side of the road being banked with dead horses,  mules and wagons,  together with human bodies. As well some men with pack mules carrying artillery shells tried to make It through the mud away from the road but many got firmly stuck and finally drowned in the mud. Troops moving into the forward area followed single file along miles of duck boards. From experience we learned to make a good judgement where the enemy shells were likely to land and we would often throw ourselves off the boards into the mud. The exploding shells would send down a shower of mud all over us. Due to the depth of the mud many shells failed to explode (duds).<br/>The next Battalion move was to Pleogstraat early In 1918 where we spent quite a few Months,  This was the part of the front where the enemy was predicted to make its. 1918 offensive. Gradually the back area became crammed with camouflaged artillery. Our front line consisted of a separated outpost. We were some distance from the enemy and the no-mans-land was patrolled each night. The enemy also had patrols out;very often there were clashes. There were two other outposts out in front. One was called Katherine Post but I can't remember the name of the other one. The road to Lille was nearby and also a bridge across the river which had collapsed due to artillery fire. The enemy patrol used it to cross. Each night wiring parties would erect barbed wire in front of our line of posts. Many tons of wire was put out..<br/>It was winter with a vengeance,  snow and black frosts. Our food and supplies could not be brought up to us during daylight. The parties detailed to go on outpost would be saddled up waiting for their meal to arrive at 5pm. Then the officer In charge would be shouting "hurry up and get the tucker into your guts otherwise we will find the enemy occupying the outposts before we get there". Hen would duck into nearby dugouts and have their last smoke-the last they would have until they returned before dawn next morning. Then 6.30am "stand to " for an hour waiting for the enemy to attack. 14 days front line,  then relieved and 14 days a short distance to the rear in the support line.<br/>If a full force attack had been made, all we could have done was to kick up a.big noise and hold on as long as we could to allow the huge number of troops in reserve to move forward into prepared positions and attempt to stop the enemy advance.Our chances of survival were NIL.<br/>The cold was so intense we were given sheepskin vests complete with straps and buckles. I think they came straight from the</p>
