  
 [At the top of this and following pages of this letter is the word "Girls". Not transcribed.] 
 C/o D. M. S. Cairo Egypt 15th June 1915. 
 My dear girls: 
 My weekly letter to you was posted yesterday and it should be carried to Australia by the Orient steamer that is advertised to go south through the canal during the week.   Let me hope that it may have speedy voyage and that its contents may be pleasing to you. 
 Reading a copy of the leading news-paper, published in French in Alexandria, my eyes lighted upon a sentence which expresses well the relationship of the strangers to those who are native to the soil:  "Les etrangers sont the levain qui fait lever la plate le ferment des energies creatrices".   Discussing the matter the writer truly tells that such has been the case within the State since the time of the Pharoes.  To be subject to some outside influence appears to be necessary to the well being of the Egyptian type of mind, there being required a some one to direct the mental and physical powers into proper chanels.  The history of Egypt confirms the correctness of the sentiment underlying the sentence written above.   And further 'tis printed:   "L'Eyptien due peuple est par nature stagnant.   La charrure qu'il emploie est gelle d'il y a 5000 ans; les couffins dont il se sert pour emporte les gravats ou charger des materiaux dans des sacs ou des tombreaux, on les trouve sur les monuments pharoniques.  Stagnation c'est le mal de l'Egypt; progression celui de l'etranger". 
 In response to telephone message from me No. 2 G.H., replied that there were letters for Jerom and me.   The motor car was soon despatched for them, and a fine large bundle greeted my eyes, also several papers.   I have read the letters, one from each of you girls, in every case written in stages and containing much valued information upon many subjects that interest me.  You will have reply on following sheets of this.  Meanwhile many thanks for them.  Other envelopes contained sentences from Dr. Paton, Doffie, MacNamara, Mrs. Reynolds, and David Storey.  To each some day reply will go forth. 
 16-6-15.   I have looked through the papers you & others were so good as to send to me.  In the D.T. [Daily Telegraph] of the 11th May, I read how badly the press of your city takes the sinking of the Lusitania by the Germans.  It 