  
 A tin box, such as pieces of wedding cake are want to wander round in.   Eh?  Inside some layers of wool, the fibres discoloured black or brown.  Pieces of dried vegetable matter suggesting leaves and flower stalks of the long ago.  The remains of what were once flowers and their stalks.   A bow of dark green ribbon, with a tunnel through the centre where had been enclosed no doubt the flower stalks.  Is't correct?   I cannot make a diagnosis as to the variety of flowers.  Not even with the aid of my nose added to sight.  For the kindly thoughts which prompted you in the sending go forth to you my love and kisses.  It has always brought to me great joy that in regard to you girls: "The hand that hath made you fair hath made you good" is entirely applicable. 
 And now for breakfast, then for work, after to Mass, then more work, & these letters to be posted this afternoon. Good bye.    Good bye.   Good bye. 
 12.15 p.m.   Went to the bassilica at Heliopolis to hear mass, the hour being 10 a.m.   A French priest officiated.  Captain Cameron went with me.  He is to take the place of Captain Williams who is off to the Dardenelles in the course of a day or two.   A good place from which to be away just now.   Think not so? 
 The priest did not waste time.  I thought that it being trinity Sunday there might be a sermon, but not so. A busy yesterday, nothing doing to day so far but none can tell what may happen before the day has ended. 
 I enclose an interesting photograph showing how the dessert was in six years converted to the city of Heliopolis, the city as it now exists.   A wonderful place surrounded by san[d] on all sides.   Why so much money should have been expended in such a waste of sand is to me and others a veritable mystery, but there must have been some reason moving those who expended so much money.   The king of the Belgians is said to have been one of the men who found a large part of the cash, & on[e] of his countrymen, baron Burien was a very large contributer, this man has a magnificent house near to where the sultana Mother resides, from the 