
C/o. D. M. S.CairoEgypt19.8.15.
My dear Girls:
Still pour in the wounded to Cario.  Still flow out the partly trained levies which come to here from Northern and Southern lattitudes.    The burning question that each one puts to himself:  Will our men win through and when?   The answer is not always a correct expression of the mental work of the brain, because in these times one has to regulate his sentences according to the time and place wherein he happens to be.   Will they win through?   Echo answers the sentence, and the wise man refrains from answer, but hopes within his breast that the great struggle will be speedily end, and our armies be within few days one step closer to the city of Constantinople.   The casualty list when it comes to be published must be longer than was that which followed the opening stage of the great tragedy.   What will you all think of it.   So far there has not come to my ears information as to the death of any one of my personal friends. Where the projectiles are flying in such great numbers, and so many Australians are engaged it is more than can be expected that they can all escape.   Let us pray that they may.Some things in this war I cannot explain to myself, the reason being that my knowledge is not perfect enough to direct my judgment aright.  Tell me why is it that the Germans have been able in forty eight hours to blow to pieces the defences of Antwerpt, to in brief space smash to attoms the great cement fortresses at Namur, likewise those of Leiege, and in these later days do the same with the protecting rings round Lemberg, Warsa, and finally Kovno as per telegrams published in the press of this evening?   Thus: "La prise de Kovno.   Un communique de Berlin annonce que Kovno, avec tous ces forts et un stock enorme de materiel de guerre comprenant plus de 400 canons, a ete occupe par les Allemands.  La place fut prise d'assaut malgre une resistance d'une extreme opiniatrete.  Reutre.   Petrograd, 18 aout.  Un communique annonce qu'apres des combats desesperes qui ont dure onze jours et coute aux Allamands des pertes immenses les Allemands ont reussi &agrave; occupier les fortifications de Kovno, situe sur la rive gauche du Niemen a l'ouest du ruisseau de Jessia.   Les Allemands cherchent maintenant &agrave; traverser ce ruisseau remblaye, ou une partie des ouvrages se trouve encore entre nos mains.   Nous tenons toutes les fortifications de Kovno situees &agrave; droite du Niemen.  Reuter.