  
 [At the top of this and following pages of this letter is the word "Girls". Not transcribed.] 
 C/o. D. M. S. Cairo Egypt 4th August 1915. 
 My dear Girls/: 
 Three letters delivered to me to day from you, they lie beside me to be answered.  In advance, for them many thanks. 
 Joseph dear:  As yours is dated 23rd June? it will be answered first.  Keeping well and strong here under the feeding of Jerom, write him a short letter thanking him for looking after me, he will appreciate it very much, he has been a good boy for a long time. 
 You know long ago that the photos arrived, also that they have been on exhibition very often since.  (A cable has just been delivered to me from Roger Arnott, asking after his brother Colonel Arnott.   I shall make enquiries during tomorrow morning.  10.30 p.m.) 
 I get all the medical books that I require from the medical school library in Cairo, and I do not need others; the daily papers and those from home suffice for general litterature.   Oh yes Matareiha is far and away the most interesting place in Egypt a something apart from the shaky mortar and stones of which the mosques and other buildings are composed; any modern engineer could build the pyramids or the tombs, but there has been in the world but one Holy Family, whose fame increases daily though it is now ninteen hundred years since their pilgrimage on this earth.   The frescoes are like unto those of which there are so many specimens in the Louvre in Paris, they were cut from the walls in various artistic centers and brought by Napoleon from conquered towns to Paris, there is like work on the walls of the houses in Pompei. 
 Kennedy did not take long to become engaged, he is a nice boy.   You thought it strange for the Russians to lose Premysl [Przemysl, Poland].   What do you think of them after losing Warsaw?  They never have been any good in fighting against European, that is trained, soldiers, they manage well against semi civilised hordes or savages, but they always give in when the fighting lasts.  Think back upon their history for only one hundred years. 
 Next:  27.6.15.   Some of the men here have already read the article which appeared in the Sun.  Many thanks for sending it, I shall look out for the whole paper.   Thanks in advance for the sox, it is good of you to devote time to the making of them.   Sorry that Marjory has been sick, but hope that she is now all right.  A 