
Joseph dear:/ You appear to have taken "Cooleen" under your charge during the absence of the heads of the house. Please give to the members of the family my best wishes and kindest regards, with hopes that the voyage around the islands has been pleasant and interesting.Glad that you found my letters post cards & newspaper cuttings of interest. When Jerom obtains for me some further reproductions of the small photographs they will go forward to you. I have been thinking that one of the Old man in his working costume in the office might stand enlarging. As far as one can judge the work done in the photographers shops in Cairo is of a very poor class, the cameras must be the same as elsewhere, but those who use them have not the necessary standard of education in the perfecting of the pictures.Jerom still talks to me about the letter from Tabbie. He has imagined himself sick for two days, & has placed himself on the list for a rest, this afternoon he is away somewhere, at Heliopolis or perhaps Cairo.It is nearly time that the armies of the Allies should have success, personally I have but little hope for such being the case this year. The German Weight still imprints itself in large letters upon my brain. That picture of Bill and his sons issued by one of the illustrated papers before I left Australia was an indication of the high standard of training to which the people of the Empire had attained. It was wonderful. The reward for this efficiency is being reaped by Mackenson, Hindenburg and the other generals.We have heard nothing from Galipoli for more than a week. General Ford told me last night that I was first on the list to move across there.Col. Featherstone from Melbourne, P.M.O. for Australia called upon me yesterday, he looked round, but he did not say much. He does not know much about military matters. Ford
[Anton Ludwig August von Mackensen, born August Mackensen(1849-1945), was ennobled, becoming known as August von Mackensen, in 1899. A Prussian-German soldier he reached the rank of field marshal and was one of the German Empire's most prominent military leaders in World War I.
Lieutenant Colonel Richard Herbert Joseph Fetherston(1864-1943), obstetrician-gynaecologist, surgeon, academic and politician, served as a medical officer with the Victorian Militia from 1887. At the outbreak World War I he was appointed director-general of medical services, based in Melbourne. In 1915 he visited Egypt, Gallipoli and England to inspect and reorganise the Australian Army Medical Corps.]
