Alexandria
20/3/16
Bath at 0630 and tea brought in. Dressed in slacks took 3 No 9's. After palatial breakfast went up to office and told off officers to their boats. Winches still busy and usual routine now being carried on with. A few men finished up the town last night but not very many. Detained a while to disembark Corporal Peters who had the misfortune to damage his eye on his bayonet. 
After the gangway was lowered, two beery looking hard cases blew along evidently much alarmed at the prospect of remaining behind. However grasping a fender rope they shinned up. All men on parade today with their lifebelts and submarine guards at their stations as well as a supplementary crew for the 4.7 gun. 
We sail anytime before noon and are taking probably our last view of Egypt. Fascinating oriental and the home of a remarkable people. I like it so much that the prospect of living there would be rather pleasant. The quaint people and their customs, the wonderful buildings, the desert, the heavy scent, the Eastern dress, the veiled women, the tarboushed men, the mighty religion and the undreamt of vice make up a remarkable mixture. We had a good time in Egypt, he knows our Cairo from A to Z and he knows a lot who can teach us anymore about the wonderful underworld there that exists where the tourist never penetrates. 
All hands are very pleased with the accommodation on board and there are no complaints at all. The quays seem comparatively bare as most of the others have already sailed. A fresh wind blowing a fresh sea running making a good roll even before clearing the harbour and a few messes will be vacant at lunch.
Palm trees and desert we can see on the outskirts of the town as we move out, glaring in the sun the pilot is dropped clear of the boom stretched across the entrance. This boom is closed at night. We have no convoy, all hands to wear life belts constantly and boat parties are to be called for as wanted. 
Puttees are not being worn but all the doctors are in favour of not stripping, entering the water so clothes can keep temperature up. The warmth of woollen bathing dress is instanced in support of this. All very glad to realise the fruition of so many furpheys and that we are at last on our way to France. 
Shall we call at Malta. This ship has just completed one run to Marseilles with English troops.