Thursday 11th Major Fowler is going to give me a good trial evidently as he kept me here to-day sent others on, my only relief is hot water bottles. I cannot lie in one position for more than a few minutes am on the ground now instead of a stretcher. Divisional Headquarters suffered from shell fire to-day they killed four blew up various dugouts. It is surmised these shells come from the new howitzers we heard so much about.
Friday 12th Spent a day of agony lying on my back, as they could not get the alcohol to inject they have decided to send me away I will go to-morrow morning. The pain has now gone in to my shoulders and it is put down as muscular rheumatism. To-morrow all the drivers are due here from Egypt.
Saturday 13th Nov All our drivers arrived this morning and I will missed seeing them as I was transferred to the 13 British Clearing Hospital at nine am. I always said that if I left the peninsular it would be on a stretcher, and it was for two of my old mates had to carry me down as I could not walk I was put into a tent at the CS to await the barge that was to take us out to the hospital ship but the sea was so rough that the barge could not get in and we had to be there all day night. During the day a terrific cheer went up and we all wondered it was it was a welcome to Lord Kitchener as he stepped ashore, surrounded by generals staff officers. He made a short address to the men then went up to the trenches, he passed the hospital so I just caught a glimpse of him. It was dreary waiting in the hospital no food only milk to drink and to cap it all during the night one of the men commenced delirious raving, he was suffering from religious mania.
Sunday 14th Nov Weather rough all day barge could not come in for us so we had to lie there all day on starvation diet. My mates came down to see me. I was glad to meet them before I left. The hospital is full and none going off so it is to be hoped we go tomorrow.
Monday 15th Nov
Regular gale all day sea running very high hospital boat had to take shelter in Imbros harbour, consequence we