 a6922005.html                                                                    7 
                                                    -4- 
 side of the Cunarder "Saxonia" on which vessel we embarked.  She short- 
 ly afterwards moved out into the harbour and anchored for the night  
 so as to allow us to organise the troops before venturing out into 
 the submarine area, and as we had 3,500 men aboard this took some 
 doing.  3,500 men does not sound much, but when you get them on a  
 ship - even a 15,000 tonner like the "Saxonia" - you will find that 
 they have to pack together like passengers on the Ferry Boats during 
 the busy hours.  Everything being made ship-shape we put to sea the 
 following morning about breakfast time.  The men had been told off 
 to their life boats or rafts and deck spaces were allotted where 
 the men were to parade on an alarm being given.  These alarms were  
 given at least twice a day to get the men used to their positions 
 and so avoid confusion and panic should real danger threaten, in 
 fact them men never knew but what each alarm might be a genuine one. 
 Life belts were worn the whole time, but officers were allowed to  
 take theirs off whilst messing, but had to hang them over their 
 chairs.  The only time the men took theirs off was when they went 
 to bed and then they were compelled to use them as pillows so as to 
 be in readiness.  We had one night alarm - about 10 o'clock one night 
 and our Company was the first to report "All present and correct  
 on alarm station", the time being 12 minutes.  When you consider 
 that the ship was in absolute darkness and also the narrow stair- 
 ways leading up from below, 12 minutes was quite a good performance. 
 There were numerous minor casualties through men falling over winches,  
 steampipes etc. in the dark, but nothing serious.  Notices were 
 posted up warning men that should anyone fall overboard the ship 
 would not be stopped as by doing so, she would be a target for 
 submarines and the lives of 3000 odd would not be risked for the sake 
