a6922057.html
111
(10).
once a week are another good idea and in addition to reducing our meat
requirements by a seventh will probably do our constitution no little
good.
     Then there is the question of the cultivation of the British
Isles.  Thousands of acres are lying idle which should long ago have
been put to use.  The Farmers say that they cannot secure sufficient
labour.  Then it must be found for them.  France is densely cultivated
not an acre being wasted and this with EVERY MAN of military age at war
or war work.  Who then does the farming?  The women, the children and the old men and they will have to do it in the British Isles.  In
France they do it with a will for the love of France and I trust that
in Britain they will not have to be conscripted.  There are any amount
of women of the leisure class who could be put to this work with benefit
both to the country and to themselves, whilst the supply of child labour
and elderly peiple in the immidiate vicinity of where the work requires
doing, must be considerable.  There is in England at present a section
of women who treat war work as a sort of Society fad.  Just at present
farm work is the fashion.  They get an elaborate farming costume made
in Bond Street in which they have their photograph taken standing along-
side (not too close) a nicely groomed tame cow borrowed for the
occasion.  The next step is to have the photo with suitable letter press
inserted in"The Tattler" whereupon their joy is complete and the lap
dog gets an extra lump of sugar that night.  On the other hand there
are thousands of women willing and anxious to do any work which may be
of use - anything so long as they can feel that they are helping.  All
it wants is someone to organise womens labour, show them exactly what
wants doing and they will do it.  So far no attempt seems to have
been made to organise this voluntary labour and it is a matter which
wants attending to at once.  The British woman is no sluggard, give
her a job and she will master it in no time;  this much she has proved
