a6922062.html
121
(4).
waters edge on Cap Martin it commands a view both up and down the coast
from San Remo (the principal town of the Italian Riviera) on the left,
down past Monte Carlo and Monarco to Nice on the right.  The sea is a
deep blue, the towns consists of white houses with red roofs and rising
up half a mile back from the beach the snow capped Alps finish a picture
of wonderful beauty.  The highly colored views one sometimes sees of the
Riviera are by no means exaggerated.  The Landscape Gardener has worked
wonders all along this coast and has introduced plants, shrubs, and trees
from all parts of the world and frequently their native soil has to be
brought with them to get them started.  The tendency is towards
tropical rather than Northern foliage and results have been obtained
superior to the same plants or trees in their own native countries.
This specially applies to tree ferns and the more heavy varieties of
palms, but there are also Australian trees the splendid condition of
which would make Mr. Maiden green with envy.  Eucalyptus and other
species of the Gum tree are here in great quantities:  one road near Nice
through which I drove was bordered for two miles with Gums whose
tendency to sprawl out had been checked by liberal pruning each year
with the result that they have developed into fine shapely trees.  The
Currajong is another tree which does well here, and one sees both the
big fellow which makes our Western sheep farmers glad and the smaller
symmetrical chap used mostly for ornamental purposes.  It is rather
worthy of note that the Prince of Monarco has made use of this latter
tree in his wonderful Casino Garden at Monte Carlo.  This garden,
probably the most famous thing of its kind in the World consists of
an oblong strip running from the main street of Monte Carlo down a
slight decline to the main entrance of the Casino, probably about
half an acre in extent.  It is bordered by alternate Currajongs and
a species of tree palms the trunks of which match those of the
Currajong in so much as they are about the same thickness and taper
