a6922066.html
129
(8).
side one might be excussed for remonstrating with the driver.
     A lot of the mountain tops in the vicinity of Menton are con-
verted into forts which command the Italian frontier, whilst the Italians
on their side have made similar provisions.  Happily both systems are
now united against the common enemy, although unless by an occasional
shot at a German submarine in the Mediterranean away below, it is unlike-
ly that they will be of any use.  The forts are manned by the pictur-
esque Chasseurs Alpins with their baggy trousers and floppy tam o' shante
caps.  Artillery practice was in progress one day whilst we were up in
the mountains, the shells being directed at some mountain top a couple of
miles inland, and in the distance amachine gun could be heard tat-tat-
tatting away in its efforts to keep the cobwebs out of its barrel.  This
mountain warfare would be a welcome change to the flat swampy conditions
of the North for one could at least retire round the corner of a crag
for a comfortable sleep now and then whilst gas attacks would be
impossible and one need not sit up all night with a gas helmet on just
because some fool miles away thought he smelt gas and started all the
alarm horns and bells going.
     The town of Grasse about 15 miles inland from Cannes is
rather a famous Scent making centre and all about the mountain sides are
terraced not for growing olives this time, but roses and other highly
perfumed flowers.  Long before one reaches the region of the Scent
factories one becomes aware of the industry of the place - the same might
be said of Botany.
     The Principality of Monarco over which Prince Albert
reigns consists of the towns of Monarco and Monte Carlo whilst in between
is La Condamine where the greater part of the Prince's "subjects" live.
The Principality is 300 acres in extent and has a population of about
16,000 people, a toy harbour, a golf course, a museum and above all any
amount of facilities for the World's Rich to part with their money.  As
