 a6922006.html 
 9                                           -5- of one.  This had the effect of making the troops chary of sitting 
 on the rails or climbing out into the boats which latter by the way 
 were kept hung out in the davits and lowered half way to the water.  
 No submarines were seen but the "Minneapolis" a vessel of our own 
 size and only one day ahead of us was sunk; fortunately she had no 
 troops on board at the time.  In our efforts to avoid submarine 
 attacks we dodged all over the place, never keeping on the same 
 course for more than three minutes, the idea being that it takes 
 a submarine commander fully three or four minutes to work up his 
 aim for his torpedo ( he has to take into consideration the speed, 
 course and length of the target ship, also the speed of his own 
 craft and the general condition of the sea way)  and by that time 
 the target has changed her course and he as to start working up 
 another aim.  He may of course take a chance shot, but unless he is 
 within very close range he is hardly likely to do this for fear 
 of being strafed by Von Tirpitz for wasting torpedoes which cost 
 about 800 each.  Ofter six or seven big vessels would be within our 
 field of vision at the same time and it was a most peculiar sight to 
 see them wandering about as though playing blind man's bluff.  They 
 may all be bound for different destinations and yet they appear to be 
 all mixed up, and it is impossible to tell which one is going in your 
 own direction and which the opposite.  The anount  of extra mileage 
 steamed must be enormous.  Suddenly a destroyer will hop up over the 
 horizon, dash up to each ship, satisfy herself as to her identity 
 and then spin round on her tail and be out of sight within very few 
 minutes.  There seems to be a never ending supply of these craft and 
 often we were visited by half a dozen different ones during the day.  
 They never stop but tear up at somewhere between 20 and 30 knots, 
 have a close look at you and then turn so quickly that they look as 
   
