a6922061.html
119
(3).
and beyond learning that coal is 8 per ton and observing that there
are no lighting resitrctions as in England, I know nothing about the
place.  The immunity of Paris from Zeppelin attack is popularly
attributed to a good system of Anti aircraft defences, but I am in-
clined to think that it is the long overland journey which makes the
voyage unpopular amongst Zeppelins, added to which of course is the
undisputable fact that the Germans' principal hate is directed against
England and not France.  The only well known spot in Paris which I
saw whilst driving through in the dark (we WERE permitted to have the
blinds up in the taxi) was the site of the storming of the Bastille
whereon is erected a monument and I fancy the French people sort of
"mafick" here once a year.
     The Paris, Lyon, Mediterranean Co.'s express is as fine
as anything of its kind in England.  The running is both smooth and
fast and the dining car provides excellent meals at very reasonable
cost.  Marseilles is reached via Dijon, Lyon, Avignon, etc. in 14
hours and after a halt of half an hour a start is made eastward along
the shores of the Mediterranean.  This has been described as the most
picturesque railway journey in the World, and it would certainly be
hard to beat.  La Ciotat and Toulon are passed within an hour or two
from Marseilles butx it is not until you get along towards Cannes that
what is generally known as the Riviera begins, and from here on to the
Italian border no expense has been spared to make the district ideal
for the worlds holiday seekers.  Cannes, Cagne, Antibes, Nice, Ville
Franchi, Monarco, Monte Carlo and Mento all have their special attract
ions and judging by the immense hotels at all these places, the
travellers appear to spread themselves well.  Menton which is
practically on the Italian border is my destination and here one of
the largest hotels in the Riviera (The Cap Martin Hotel) is being used
as a Convalescent Home for British Officers.  Situated right at the
