a6922068.html
133
(10).
what they are.  On my first visit, the links and the last few hundred
yards of the road were two feet under snow and greens were only
distinguishable from fairways (or bunkers for that matter) by the tops of
the flags which in most cases were visible.  Rain however soon moved the
snow and we were able to play within 6 days.  The Club House is a very
commodius affair and hung round the walls are the pictures usually to be
found in Golf Club Houses.  With a view to bar-profits the course has
been arranged so that the 9th hole as well as the first - is quite near to
the Club House.  The Links by the way, are out of the Principality of
Monarco but are owned and maintained by the Prince at what must be
enormous expense considering that all the soil for the fairways and greens
has to be carted up there.  I heard that the Links when completed had
cost him with the Club House, 70,000 but as this is only heresay I cannot
vouch for the information which however is quite likely as he must have
had to blast away a lot of mountains and things to make the links possible.
     The Casino, which to most people is the first thing of
interest in Monte Carlo, is a beautiful piece of architecture right on
the cliff's edge and surrounded by well kept gardens, promenades, etc.
A subterranean passage takes one to the Hotel de Paris on the adjacent
corner.  The main entrance to the Casino opens into a large vestibule
similar to the vestibule at the Sydney Town Hall1/2  On the left are the
two gaming rooms, each with eight or nine tables round which the punters
crowd from morning to night.  Troops of all nationalities are forbidden
entrance to these rooms during xxx play and the Prince also forbids
admission to his subjects.  To the right of the vestibule are the cloak
rooms, refreshment rooms etc.  whilst to the right front is the entrance
to the Theatre.  This little theatre contains some wonderful decorative
work including paintings on walls and oilings by world famous artists.
The seating accomodation would by no means pay for the upkeep of the
