 a6922003.html                                                                                           3    
                                                   -2- 
 fall in at 3.30.  As usual with detachments leaving during the 
 night all officers of the Camp turned out to see us off despite the 
 cold which in Egypt, even in Summer makes early rising unpopular. 
 Camp was left at 3.45 and we entrained at a Siding a mile of two 
 away, shortly after 4.30.  The train consisted of 30 open coal 
 trucks which had to accommodate about 30 men each as, with other 
 units out detachment consisted of about 900 men.  The train did not 
 leave until 7 o'clock so we had to spend a couple of hours in the 
 cold darkness in the open trucks.  No special provision was made on 
 the train for Officers, so we had to satisfy ourselves with the 
 coal trucks.  The country between Cairo and Alexandria opens ones 
 eyes to what irrigation can do.  The whole country side as far as 
 you can see is a brillint green - crops of every kind growing in 
 profusion.  This particular district is Nile Delta country and is in 
 addition watered by numerous canals, cross ditches etc.  The method 
 of Agriculture is very primitive - same as has been in use for 
 thousands of years.  The plow is just a wooden structure with a 
 single wooden spike for tearing up the ground, the reaping is 
 done with a hand sickle - generally by the women and children, 
 mostly the children, the women being used to carry the loads into 
 the markets.  Women are more plentiful and cheaper than donkeys or 
 camels so their labour is availed of to the utmost, and I must say 
 that in all the places I have been I have never seen a better car- 
 riage or a more graceful walk than is possessed by these Egyptian 
 women.  The reason is easy.  The load which is carried on their 
 head is in a basket about the size used a a clothes basket on 
 washing days in Australia, and this is heaped up with cloves or 
                                  
