 a6922029.html 
 55 
 (2) 
 men getting out to meet an attack and also as a means of escape should 
 the main entrance be blocked by having the trench blown in on to it. 
 Electric light was fitted throughout also rough bunks one on top of 
 the other round the sides of the walls.  Various stories reached us 
 of sumptuous dugouts being found xxxx fitted with brass beds, roll top 
 desks, billiard tables etc., but of this I have no first hand knowledge 
      With such trenches as these it would be quite easy for the 
 enemy to remain in comfort below whilst a bombardment preceding an 
 attack was on, relying on a couple of lookouts to give the word when 
 the infantry attack commenced so that they might come up and meet it 
 with their machine guns, a weapon which the Germans use to great 
 effect.  That the enemy were driven out of these strongholds reflects 
 great credit on the British troops who formed the attacking party on 
 1st. July when the particular area of which I have been speaking was 
 captured.  We spent a night and all the following morning in this 
 area and I took the opportunity to walk over the ground on which the 
 towns of Ovillers and La Boisselle had stood.  There is probably no 
 more dreadful region in all this stricken battle area than that which 
 lies about Ovillers - La Boisselle and beyond to Pozieres and there 
 are no adjectives in which to adequately describe its hideousness. 
 La Boisselle on the right of the Albert-Bapaume road is not more than 
 a flat layer of pounded stones and mortar on the bare face of the 
 earth.  Of anything like a village or individual building there is 
 no semblance.  Standing on the edge of the road in the glaring 
 sunshine (it was very hot and dry when I was there, no rain having 
 falled for nearly three weeks) with the roar of our own guns behind 
 one and the bursting of the enemy's shells ahead, one feels oneself 
 the only landmark in a waste.  The whole earth's surface is torn 
 with shell holes and seamed with lines of trenches, all white because 
