about my illness about Laurel going to Queensland. that was the first I've heard about her going there. I have not even heard from her mother I'm sure she would have written as soon as she heard of my illness, so you see dear how letters must go astray.
I was indeed very sorry to hear about poor Billy going west. While I was in France I saw thousands thousands of dead dying got so used to it that I never used to worry at all but how different one feels when you learn of one of your own pals going under. Why dear it very nearly made me cry. I do feel so sorry for his mother too.
Of course dear it is very nice to hear you have sent me a parcel much nicer if I do get it. It's just one big game of chance. I have received three so far, two from Lol one from Doris but if I don't receive it, it is absolutely no use making enquiries. But anyway Sis I heartily thank you for sending it not only for what it may contain but for such kind thoughtful 



feelings that prompted you to think of me many miles away. I always love to get a letter from you even if they are so far between. I think the photo of little Noni is just lovely you can understand Ive when I say (indecipherable] she will always be your dearest treasure that she may grow into as fine a girl as ever God put breath into. I would have loved to have sent over some nice little things for her but really Sis, a shilling a day just about keeps me living you know I have always been so funny in sending presents. I would hate to send one that was not a nice decent one but never mind kid (indecipherable I do come back I will be able to bring something with me. I have asked to be sent back to the line again for I really feel I must go there is something seems to be drawing me there too that is the reason [indecipherable] the ?if?. I am still classed medically unfit for active service though t I ought to be fit by next week. You know dear that when I left home I felt as if I would not get knocked I still feel the same but the war now is just a slaughter house. I heard from one of my mates yesterday that out