I replied about five days, thinking that perhaps they had not found out we had been missing so long. The Commandant went into his office and returned with a paper. He then told us that we had been away for over 19 days. We knew then that they must have found out just after we left camp, so we thought it best to tell them everything which we did. They did nothing but curse us. Then the Commandant stepped up to me and was going to smack me in the face which is their usual custom but he did not. He then sent for two sentries and made them bind our arms behind our backs with rope, which they did with a will. We thought that we were in for a severe flogging. We were marched off the verandah before we had gone far we were called back and after the Commandant and police officer held a short consultation the ropes were taken off us and we were locked in a spare room next to the commandant's office. The room was infested with mice. There was a hole in the wall close to my head and I amused myself trying to catch the mice as they went in and out of this hole. Eventually I caught one by the tail just as his body disappeared. I could not pull her out but kept letting her go as far as I could in the hole and then pulling it out with a jerk. When I thought I had punished it sufficiently I let go. It does not take much to amuse one under such conditions.
In the morning we were brought out of the room. Two sentries were put in charge of us and instructed to march us to Belemedik, the headquarters about 10 miles distant. Of course we were given no food. We were rather glad of this as the Commandant there was a Lieutenant Commander from the Turkish Navy and we knew that he had kindly feeling towards the English having served under English Admirals. On arrival there we went before this Commandant. He said he could do nothing but wait instructions from Constantinople. In the meantime we would have to go into prison on half ration of bread and water. We were in prison for a week when the Commandant sent for us. He had just received a wire from Constantinople. They seemed particularly anxious to know which one of us had suggested making this escape, but we would give them no satisfaction. They also wanted to know who gave us the information and supplied with red fezzes etc., but we had an answer ready for each question. We did not throw any suspicion on the Greek. During the day Nichols had been ompaling of a terrible headache and showed signs of a bad attack of Malaria coming on. While we were being questioned he fell down in a faint but soon came round. The Commandant seemed very much upset and postponed the examination till he was well. During the afternoon a Turkish Colonel was visiting the Camp and in his round of inspection with the Commandant he came into the prison. My mate was lying down sick with Malaria. The Commandant had an interpreter with him. Of course the Colonel wanted to know who we were. I told him that we had been attempting an escape, as it was our duty as Britishers to escape from our enemies country