waters edge, the town nestling quietly at the foot Just as French towns are pictured. It was here that Napoleon made his name here also that the French battleship ---- blew up with great loss of life. Small ferry boats ply from one side to the other. The Harbour is now protected by nets at the entrance constantly patrolled. Other boats travelling across from Alex have not been so fortunate in having the fine run we experienced. Persistent reports have it that the "Miniappolis" with Australians on board was sunken by sub the same day we left, just out from Alexandria.
 Fallacy no one on board 
Mar 28 Leave Toulon early in company with three other boats presumably for Marseilles. Sea fairly fresh. Arrive at Marseilles in company with five other transports after running up our own flag playing of bands moored in the docks. The dominant feature of this large city is seen long before you enter the bay viz Notre Dame on the top of a high eminence. The harbour is artificially formed, but crowded with shipping in spite of German alleged submarine menace. The wharves are magnificent and are behind a big breakwater are packed with coal merchandise. 
Another feature is a bridge which crosses the harbour like an aerial punt suspended from a set of high rails. Taken on the whole the place is not nearly as pretty as Toulon but is also crowded to the foreshore with pretty villas nestling among verdant vegetation. At about 5 pm we disembarked but did not move off until night so had no opportunity of seeing the town. German prisoners are employed on the wharves which are constantly patrolled they are housed in boats which are drawn out into the stream for the nights. Length of bayonets of the French. We entrained in a goods yard for what is rumoured a three days journey presumably across France at 1.30 am moved on.
Mar 29th Although I had no opportunity of seeing the scenery around the coast I awoke this morning to find us travelling through the most beautiful of countries in Southern France. All day we have been in the valley of the Rhone, on the river's left bank passing through large towns as Arles, Avignon, Valence Vienne above all Lyons. The country is one mass of cultivation is the scene of hundreds of prosperous homes. Orchards seem the most profitable undertaking. The greenness of the country is a great change to the solemn colouring of the Australian bush.