Dec 14th Join unit at Sarpi camp. Camp life easy
Dec 15th Route march to windmills on the hills. Here we saw the crushing of wheat for flour by the stones driven by windmill
Dec 20th The withdrawal from Anzac Suvla Bay is now an accomplished fact, accomplished with the loss of not one man now only Cape Helles is the only position held on the Peninsular. Absolutely nothing of any value was left stores etc being burnt a few old guns were blown up as a farewell a large mine much larger than any previous one was fired under the trenches of the Turks from the beach. The preparations were elaborate worked without a hitch, the actual withdrawal being accomplished a day earlier than was anticipated. Every thing was left perfectly clean many notes left for Jacko. To show those men last in the trenches direction the paths were all whitened so practically no one could be lost. The last man to leave was Gen Birdwood at about 3.30. At 4.40 the Turks bombarded the positions little dreaming that the trenches were empty.
Dec 23rd We have packed up ready to move at any moment to day we have been issued with our Xmas extras including tinned fruit, puddings billy from Australia.
Dec 24th Xmas eve. Still expecting to move.
Dec25th Xmas Day. Reveille an address by General Munro thanking men for their work on the Peninsular the excellent manner of withdrawal Xmas greetings from King
 Brittannic in port as Hospital Ship 
1916
Jan 1st New Years Greetings by a nights rain which flooded our tent out.
Jan 2nd Marching orders. Baggage guard have to load gear on to barges then again from barge on to ship "Empress of Britain" In fact I think this puts the finishing touches on my education. Wharf labouring loading slings etc to be put into hold. Leave Lemnos with between 5000 6000 troops on board, including Harry. The ship is fast being a CPR Express steamer mounting a 6" gun 8 machine guns. Strict regulations re submarines defence. Lifebelts to be worn throughout voyage no smoking allowed after six pm. Lemnos is a quaint place being inhabited with Greek peasants dotted all over with small villages separated only by a mile or so. Industry is conspicuous