Nov 3 The railway journey to Cairo is I should say to a frequent traveller most uninteresting, but to me is a revelation. The country is nothing but sand but here there along the route there are cultivation plots. Here too did I meet for the first time donkeys camels being used as beasts of burden. There is only one station of any size viz Zag-a-zig. Tel-el-Kebir the site of the Battle of 1882 is en route. The journey occupies about 7  hours. Also I was introduced to bully biscuits on the train journey. At about 8.30 we arrived at Zietoun about 8 miles from Cairo (700,000) 
Nov 4 Wake up on the Libyan Desert. In "B" Details Zietoun camp, the bulk being artillery men. Here is my first experiences of actual desert life, the sand stretching away for miles. Also too we are introduced to real discipline having to shave dress properly for 2nd parade. 
Routine Reveille 6. Breakfast 8. Parade 9. Dinner 12.30. Parade 2 ? 4.30.
In the morning we usually go for route marches to places of interest eg. The tree under which the Virgin Mary rested when fleeing from Egypt the well from which she drank. In the evening I went into Cairo. There are many Europeans resident here being mostly English French. The natives are a cosmopolitan race but generally speaking they are filthy in their body dress. Some of them however, very intellectual looking persons have adopted European methods of dress. The women mostly wear viels are clothed mostly in black silk, the viel being cream. Those who are married have a wooden nose piece. 
The tram service is fine there being a special service more like a train than tram, running to Heliopolis. There is 1st 2nd classes compartments reserved for "Dames". French is the language used on the tickets. The railway service is also good, 1st 2nd 3rd classes. Cairo is served by two main stations Cairo Pont Lemon . In dealing with the natives one has to resource to bargaining even more so than in Colombo but the natives invariably have to come down to the price offered. The City overrun with khaki the men usually congregating around the cheaper native public houses the officers round ?Shepherds or the Continental Hotels which are world renowned. The morality of the city is the lowest imaginable but these things I will leave to my memory. Currency is based on 1 Piastre being worth 2 d or 94  for 1.