Mar 23 The run to Alexandria impressed me more this time than last. From the canal bank to Zagazig the agricultural plots are rare sporadic but after that both sides of the railway track has its irrigation canals the crops are magnificent. Irrigation is very primitive in style the spiral wheel with the proverbial ox being greatly in evidence. There are several big manufacturing towns such as Tanta en route cotton seemingly being the chief product. There are many cemeteries along the line being evidenced by conical other shaped mounds . The track is very good enables very fast moving as one express for which we had to allow pass crosses the Nile by very fine bridges. Near Ishmalia is another of the lakes at present there are a couple of big warboats watching the canal. 
We left Alexandria Egypt yesterday afternoon on this trip we have been allotted second saloon 4 berth cabins. Submarines are said to be in the vicinity of our track so great precautions have to be taken. The troops are now armed with the Lewis Machine Gun (Belgium) four to a Coy. (the Machine Gun section being attached to Brigade) which are capable of good work. They can be manipulated by one man fire from revolving discs. The barrel is cooled by air chambers. 
EGYPT I first saw Egypt on Nov 3 1915 my impression confirmed all popular opinions ie that is a sandy waste on seeing it I now say as has been before said that Egypt is made by the Nile Other than in the River valley the country is nothing but a waste of sand especially that part in the vicinity of the Canal but on the River bank where the water has been brought by the aid of numerous canals the country lends itself well to agriculture. Maize cotton sugar cane are the chief agricultural products. It very seldom rains other than in the months of Jany Feby. when it does very often but in March strong winds spring up carry the sand about for days. Dust storms as we know them are mere bagatelles in comparison. In October the River Nile "Rises" not overflows its banks as popularly supposed. It floods particular spots when I saw the Pyramids it was nearly over the Mena Camp site.