May 26th I am convinced that this place is overrun with spies only yesterday the billets of the 6th Batt were shelled with success. That morning though fine neither milkman paperman came the plowman did not do his usual bit on the fields.
May 27th Visit town of Merville on River Lys. It is far superior to Estaires or Ballieul the church though modern is the finest I have yet seen in France. The people are a superior class to those of the other towns speak a more refined language.
The country is still beautiful the crops are in a more advanced stage of growth. Poppies are now making their debut for the spring red hawthorn also.
June 1st 1st Australian Brigade were to-day inspected at Sailly by Mr Hughes. This afternoon again visit Merville en route see a close running duel between aeroplanes in which the Allied plane easily out distanced out manoeuvred his adversary. The position at the trenches we have just handed over has become fairly hot many casualties are the usual.
June 5th News of the Battle of Horn Reef, at first it was bad but now we are convinced that the Germans got a little the worse. 
June 8th Admitted to hospital with septic knee. News of Lord Kitchener's death from drowning en route to Russia.
June 12th Discharged from hospital.
June 15th At 12 midnight last, the clock was put forward one hour in consequence of the French adopting Daylight Savings Bill after the English precedent. Rumour has it that very shortly we will be moving to Ypres. To-day I had my first intro to a "town crier" who with his bell proclaimed decrees in the streets of Estaires.
June 19th Move from Doulieu to Neuve Eglise via Steenwerke. Cross the frontier we are now in Belgium about 8 miles from Ypres. The village of Neuve Eglise is one mass of ruins, by far the most desolate place I have seen. The houses etc are full of shell holes many are only half standing. Great shell holes are all over the fields there is an unexploded 8.2 German shell. The country is here hilly the trenches are on a ridge about 3 kilos away. Plugstreet Sector.
June 20th Some doubt as to our right of being here but to-day we visited plugstret which village is deserted much shelled. There have been several gas attacks here lately the crops have suffered severely.