Dec 2nd Hospital Ship "Mauritania" enters port
Dec 4th Today we disembarked proceed to camp at Anzac depot which is about
the worst position I have been too
Dec5th Visit Greek village which is typical of those scattered over the islands. It 
boasts of a church a school here too is a British Cemetery. The Greek takes advantage of the intake of khaki converts his house into a shop charging extortionate prices for everything. The general contour of the island is mountainous but is fairly well cultivated. Corn is the chief crop. Pastoral pursuits are chiefly centred on mountain sheep goats.
Dec 6th Orders to proceed to the front. Embark on SS" Osmanieh" a boat of 21 knots at 3.30 we left the harbour on voyage to Anzac where the Australian troops landed on April 25th 1915. A sharp lookout has to be kept for submarines a 4.7 is mounted astern for defence. At 8.30 we anchored off Anzac beach. It presents a wonderful scene. The shore is dotted with dim lights apparently from the dugouts occasionally a flare is thrown up into the air casting a bluish light over the sea. Occasionally the guns roar forth the noise of a bursting bomb is even greater. All the time bullets are cracking overhead potting into the sea. The splutter of machine guns is almost incessant as well as the sound of rifle fire. Out to sea a prowling destroyer is casting a searchlight round occasionally a flash of a gun followed by a roar comes from the same source. The scene is weird but fascinating. All night we have been waiting to disembark a couple of men have been shot before even we left the boat.
Dec 7 At 6.30 we disembarked were conveyed by motor barges to the shore where we were ordered to Reinforcement Gully or Whites Gully. Soon the shells began to push their presence on us among the first was one from Beachy Bill a battery of guns in the Olive Grove near Gaba Tepe. These guns have never been properly silenced although they have been bombarded several times. It has accounted for more men than any other individual position as it can command the entire stretch of sand marking the beach. Also it has the range of every valley in the place. The shell is preceded by a lazy screeching sound is invariably shrapnel.