August 10th To-day I am 21 have had a small turn out, eggs etc champagne. 
August 11th Move to Wargnies. This evening I visited the Sousterrain at Naours. These caves were built as a refuge from invasions as far back as 850AD can accommodate 300 families, from the surrounding districts (see copy of notice)
August 12th Move to Herrisart a few miles further on where the Ambulance has congregated.
August 14th Move to Brickfield Hill, overlooking Albert. The march was about twelve miles no sooner had we laid our beds in the paddock than Fritz sent over about six shells fortunately doing damage 
August 15th Bearers A.B C march off to Becourt where we leave our packs then move off to various stations. We are detailed for Pozieres the right where 6th 5th Batts are in. Our carries are heavy especially the 1st which is through a narrow sap. In the afternoon Harry Rogers came through wounded but it is only a flesh wound in the leg.
August 16th This morning also a German plane was brought down in flames by one of our machines. In fact there were two.
August 17th Retire to C. Corner where we load wagons for 24 hours. (spell.
August 18th Again at 5th Aid post where to-day the shelling is very severe. This evening our relief was caught in a dugout, four being killed viz. Cunningham, Lehane, Elliot Smith. Also one wounded at Pozieres.
August 19th Back again at Casualty C. but we were called back to the Aid post as reserve for the 8th Batt's attack.
August 20th Three attempts were made to take the German trench after a terrific bombardment at 9 pm last night, but without success. However they dug in in front of their objective with not too many casualties
August 21st 22 nd Again at CC for a spell 
Yesterday to-day we have been on the Pozieres carry but not much to do until this morning after an attack on the left. At 11 am. the Ambulance was relieved we move back to Brickfield.
August 22nd March from Brickfield to Warloy. One night lately a shell burst on C Corner wounded Capt Graham slightly. We have since heard that he has died of gas gangrene.