The town is situated on a hilly cape of the sandy deserts to the north, the hills jutting straight up from the water. Some of the buildings are in the most inaccessible places the hills are entirely devoid of vegetation. A couple of warships were in the bay. Here we found an entirely different kind of natives, the Arabs. We left Aden that morning after hugging the coast of Arabia until 4.30 pm. Entered the Red Sea. Here was seen the grandest sight of the Voyage. The day had been perfect now the sun is setting not over the ocean, but over the rugged mountains of that part of Africa. To the right is the island of Perim, a naval station, beyond the next stretch of water the coast of Arabia. It is dusk the lighthouse is alight flashing up the Red Sea as we enter the Strait of Babelmandeb the men passengers crowd forward to watch a cable steamer pass through the same time. It is indeed the most unique sight of the voyage, the place where the "China" met her accident.
Nov 2 After a good run up the Red Sea we entered the Gulf of Suez next 
Nov 3 morning anchored in Suez harbour where we disembarked entrained for our Egyptian destination. 
In this voyage I consider we had the best time of any troops which had ever left Australia in this way. The boat was kept scrupulously clean the food was of the best. The passengers treated us like little Gods entertained us many times at concerts kept us supplied in chocolates, cigarettes fruit etc. Of the English troops I have nothing but praise for the manner in which they strictly obeyed orders drilled. They were always commended on the cleanliness of their deck. Their money is small at ports we Australians arranged collections to enable them to have a good time. Consequently they held us in high esteem were sorry to leave us at Colombo. Their strict English officer was a big contrast to our own, demanding a fullest extent of discipline. The men are certainly small of stature. Of the passengers, we have much to be thankful to in Mrs B Gwynne Hughes Miss Churnside who disembarked at Port Said. Except for the second day out from Sydney the weather has been excellent though naturally very depressing hot in the tropics. 
I must say that my first impressions of Egypt are not of the best as from the boat we can only see a long stretch of undulating sand. Hells entirely devoid of vegetation.