All along the route the people welcome us but I notice they are almost entirely womenfolk are almost invariably in black. Besides passing through large towns we cross all the Eastern tributaries of the Rhone. There is a noticeable lack of natural vegetation but all the trees poplars in particular seem to have been artificially planted. All the trees are in blossom look beautiful on their background of green. Lyons is by far the most magnificent town I have yet seen I had only a glimpse of it as we dashed over the fine bridge across the Rhone. Fine buildings, streets with trees squares also half a dozen bridges across the Rhone. It is here that the river turns abruptly south from its course also where it receives its chief tributary the Saone. 
Towards evening we still continue to be on a river bank but that of the Saone on its right bank. This is also crossed by numerous bridges for a few miles the site of many fine homes. In fact all along are many beautiful large houses chateaux standing in very spacious grounds. I notice at some works en route women taking men's places Munition works are largely evident.
Mar 30th During the night we passed through Dijon are now making our way along the bank of the Yonne a branch of the Seine. At Melun we come on to the latter stream continue almost up to Paris. Along here the nature of the cultivation changes wheat takes the place of Fruit. The Seine is a fine wide stream, divided into many locks navigated by barges. It is connected to the Rhone with canals which are also navigated by barges. Great excitement is prevailing at the thought of seeing Paris gives way to disappointment when we go round Versailles St Germain. If we did not actually see the city we saw the aeroplane scouts which are constantly circling round it to give notice of any approach of hostile air craft. At Versailles we had a glimpse of the Tuileries which is a fine large palace on the banks of the river.
This morning I awake to find our train at Abbeville at the mouth of the Somme. During the night we passed through Amiens other places have now travelled from Mediterranean to the Channel. Our route now lies along the coast through Bolougne around Calais then down through St Omer until we finally reach Hazebrouck. Pass French Airship.