The Suez canal defences are most elaborate. The railway runs right up to the Western bank of the canal that with barges from Suez, Port Said Somalia can supply troops? stores ammunition at a moments notice. The canal is bridged with a pontoon bdge with a punt transfers troops etc to the East bank. From here a motor railway road runs out to 5 miles, Railhead where a supply depot base has been formed. The advanced positions are at least 3 miles out. Daily patrols of N.Z.M.R. go out reconnoitring along the bank of the canal a is drawn along every night thus enabling the military to see if anyone has crossed the canal. Aeroplanes go scouting every two or three days.
Feby 7th Visit advanced positions. There are no trenches but a series of redoubts separated by a few miles, commanding everything in front of them. They are formed by a maze of sand bagged trenches have a front all round.
Mar 2-3rd Terrific wind storm. Typical sand storm of these parts. The sand is so thick one cannot see many yards ahead the velocity with which it comes stings where it hits the bare skin. 
Mar 8 Rumour is rife has it that within a month we will have left Egypt be in either France or England. In fact everything points that way various units have already received marching orders. Transport here is the greatest difficulty camels being mostly employed. For the evacuation of sick wounded we alone have a sand cart with wide wheels drawn by mules, camel cradles which are two cradles one of which goes on either side of the camels hump a sand sledge carrying two patients on stretchers drawn by horses. As for transport to Ismalia the barges boats are used on the canal. We are allowed 1 gallon of water per diem per man. Active service rations.
Mar 11th Return to Sera peum. Here all is activity where the whole of the Aust 1st Division is now in camp. The whole of the forces have been divided new battalions made from the old ones these men together with 50000 from Home will make the Aust forces up to five divisions. We expect to move very shortly to will the prevalent most likely rumour is to France where I expect the Australians will be used for a great offensive. Our own ambulance has been divided, B Section going to make the 13th field Amb.