It appears that we are moving on to the firing line early.
April 9th Shift billet to Outersteene about three miles further on. This evening I went through the church graveyard at Herres. Among the tombstones was one dedicated to a lad of 19 a "membre? of the Junior Catholic massacre by the Germans in Oct 1914. The Germans held all this district in October 1914 committed many outrages both on men women. The churches buildings bear the marks of bullets shrapnel. The religion of this country is rigidly observed. At every corner is a crucifix in many of the houses are smaller ones. To day I saw a violent bombardment of an enemy ?plane by anti aircraft guns. The brigade is now billeted alongside of us.
 Anti Aircraft Guns are mostly mobile. On motor lorries 
April12 This afternoon we went into the town of Ballieul, about 10 miles from Armentieres which is frequently bombarded. It is the largest town in the district is now the scene of much military activity. There are two old churches here, one dated 1635 the other 1700 which have much fine work in their construction. Here we could also get many things which we could not buy in the villages as fruit postcards etc. The weather we are having is typical April weather, "April showers March winds. The place is a sea of mud in direct contrast with the sand of Egypt. Here also bombardments of hostile ?planes are of common occurrence.
April 16th Again visit Ballieul this time had a look at the Aerodrome. We saw five bi-planes rise one descend. Also saw a couple of monoplanes for 1st time. Warned to move in the morning with advance party.
April 17 This morning we (30) move off to Sailly sur la Lys in the rain through by roads sea of mud. Here we are about 28 direct miles behind the trenches but little is doing. We have taken over a dressing station our division replaces the "Bantams" We've now come to the conclusion that for trench warfare the stretcher bearer is finished. Even from the Aid Post to the Motor Ambulance Rendezvous there is a wheel.
April 18th Take over divisional baths laundry which provides baths clean clothing for troops. Here are about 80 girls employed in washing mending clothes.
April 20th Hostile aeroplanes are common. To-day the billets of the 9th Batt were shelled with result of 17 killed 60 wounded.