  
 [Transcriber's note: The previous diary ended on 14 February 1917 with Compton in a camp near Memetz. He held the rank of Company Sergeant Major. This diary begins nearly two months later with the 4th Brigade engaged in the First Battle of Bullecourt. The Brigade suffered heavy casualties during the German counter-attack and large numbers were captured including Compton. Compton was moved with other N.C.O.s to various camps including Dulmen, Minden, Soltau and Scheveningen] 
 A. R. Compton Diary 
 11 Apr. 1917 - 6 Dec. 1917 
 11.4.17 Captured about 12.30 A.M. our artillery opened after we had called for it about an hour, but to late it was nice to be under our own barrage.  of course we were prisoners by the above time in the Germans hands.  We had run out of bombs & what a contrast between the supply of the Germans & ours.  they had men lined along the trench right from the rear of their lines a splendid way to get same to the front line. re passing say a dozen at a time in a bag.  we were taken through the village of Riencourt which was being smashed level with the ground  as we passed through men being Blown to pieces of both nationalities awful sight worse I have seen.  It is the first time I have seen the real thing as regards the effects of our artillery it did tickle our friends up. ??? we were taken under escort straight away through two small villages a hellish long walk. at last we arrived at our destination, I take it for the night, into a big village it was Ecourt St. Quentin. all  scrche  scorched & the Germans for any information etc. in a big court yard. snowing very heavily all the time & we arrived there about 5 oclock.  somewhere about eight men were formed up in batches of 100 & marched to a big church near By.  we got a piece of Brown bread. a cup of coffee.  Boys drinking out of anything which would hold liquid re steel helmets. tin pots etc.  it looks as though we will have to sit up all night 895 of us a good number wounded some very Bad.  it was a tiled floor. very close in side fires. Women crying from village, full of [indecipherable]. 
