
Wednesday 13/12/16Put in a lovely night. Packed like sardines in a hut, had been turned out of several before we got this one had our Knees up near our chins all night. splashed about in the mud until dark before we were settledTheres no doubt the 55th is about the worst managed Bat in the line men are brought to a place & no accomodation provided, when you get there, are told to get in anywhere, & they say are we wining, I dont thinkA lot warmer this morning & the sun is trying to come out.Have had diarrhea for 3 days.Made a mistake in dates Pay now 2-5-9 deferred 17-15-0can't eat anything goes through me as soon as I get it down had a piece of onion & small piece of Bread & margarine for dinner.Another lot of the Boys off to England to day, wish I was.The hut is full with men a dinner some standing others sitting on the floor in the mud, its wonderful how dirty one gets in his habits, we eat it now as well as sleep in it.Another shift to another hut truly our man in charge ought to get his brains brushed
Thursday 14/12/16shifted here in the dark as usual had all day to do it in but our man of brains thinks the night time the Proper time to send men floundering about in the mud we are back about 1/2 mile from the camp & have to walk there for our meals. Who says this isn't high intelligence.Pay 2=6-9. 17-16-0have still got the diarrhea bad.Should be leaving here soon now thank God. 2 months of the Somme.
Friday 15/12/16Another shift yesterday we are in a dug-out again & the rain drips all over us but that is nothing out of the commonrained hard last night in fact it does nothing else here. Still got the diarrhea caused by wet feet etc. have not had dry feet for a month now some of the fellows haven't even got sox & most have only the one Pair. thats their own fault however as we were issued with 3 Pairs some time agoOur Boys come out tonight then we go back for a spell.Pay 2-7-9 17-17-0
Saturday 16/12/16Cold with frost & ice.Men coming out Tomorrow then back 2 miles to Montauban another batch going to London to day. tried to snow at dinner time.No letters for some time now.Am Alright again but Viv has got it now & looks played out think he will not stand it much longer.Rumours that Austria has given up the struggle, hope so.Snowing 2 PM.
Sunday 17/12/16Moving off this morning at 12. for MontaubanPay 2-9-9. 17-19-0fog & mud up to your knees.
