
[Transcriber's notes:This diary is relatively short covering from April 30th to May 17th 1915.  For most of this period the Bulla was off Gaba Tepe with the fleet and Gilroy is able to observe a lot of the onshore action, including the intensity of the fleet's bombardment.  He also hears from various visitors to the ship about the land action.  Of particular interest are the accounts of German and Turkish infiltration and spying attempts, the fighting between Australian troops and Turkish snipers (including some women) and the reluctance of the Australians to take prisoners.  The Bulla is lucky to escape being hit by shell fire on a number of occasions, either from shore batteries or from the German battleship Graeben which fires at the transports and warships from the other side of the Peninsula.  It also escapes damage when a German aircraft attempts to bomb it.Later in this period the Bulla is ordered close inshore to Gallipoli to pick up wounded mules; it has to retreat with the barges still attached when shellfire is directed at it.  Soon after this they also take on board a barge load of sheep.  They them are moved to Kephalo Harbour, Imbros Island.  When a mule dies they are ordered out of the harbour to dispose of the carcass, when returning a French motor torpedo boat cuts across their bows, forcing them to run aground.  They get off only after discharging a large volume of precious fresh water and wasting a lot of coal.  The ship finally enjoys a quiet time at Imbros Island.Contents:Pages 3 - 6  Experiences of the Mountain Battery at the Gallipoli landing.Pages 6 - 9  Accounts of enemy spying and misdirection.Pages 9 - 10  Accounts of first assault on Gallipoli; disembarkation of  some MB support.Pages 10 - 13  Naval and land action; use of aircraft in recognisance.Pages 13 - 18  Departure of last of MB support; reluctance of Australians to take prisoners.Pages 18 - 20  Description of heavy evening bombardment of Turkish positions.Pages 21 - 25  Rewatering of Bulla; use of ship-board balloons as spotters.Pages 26 - 32  Rewatering of other transports by Bulla; failed attempt to bomb Bulla.Pages 32 - 35  Moved inshore to pick up wounded mules; moved away just before shelling.Pages 36 - 39  Rewatering of Bulla; taking on sheep; blackout of fleet to avoid submarines.Pages 40 - 43  Move to Imbros Island; fleet activities in that area.Pages 43 - 45  Disposal of dead mule; Bulla run aground by MTB but is refloated.Pages 45 - 47  Quiet time at Imbros Island.
Contents30th April 191517th May[Turner & Henderson stamp]
