  
 Sinai 2/3/16 Just before dark went out to place detached post, the position was overlooking the junction of two wadis about 1/4 mile north of Punch bowl and Danger Hill - a very difficult place to find and the visiting patrols all night were quite unable to locate this party. The fine sand was skidding across in the strong wind making the horse cough and soon after the men not on sentry laid down they must have been quite covered over. 
 Rode back now quite dark passing No. 2 group of No. 3 picquet and after that in blinding sand and darkness without compass and no stars visible became quite lost. Eventually found that I had not ridden in the direction of camp at all but had gone at right angles right across the position. Stumbled on No. 2 group on the extreme right flank of our line and could not find the picquet although knew it was only 100 yards to the left. After much stumbling at last rode into the 23rd Battalion lines a mile and a half out of my course. Steered north by the Great Bear seen fleetingly through flying cloud wrack and reached camp again about 1945. Left horse and made way out to supports  of  on foot steering on a compass bearing. 
 Reached No. 1 picquet who furnished a guide who took me 100 yards out the track but at about 2100 I reached the supports. The stinging sand flying across the desert got in everywhere and made our stay in the supports a misery. Got into sleeping bag with all clothes boots &c and pulled the mackintosh right round head. The thing was soon stifling hot but was better than being buried in sand. Frequently disturbed by visiting patrols and others with reports & messages and lay listening to the sand beating on the cover of the bed like rain. Stood to arms at 0430 very cold and still windy but the dew had laid the dust. Stars shining very brightly and everyone much fatigued. Eyes plastered up as with mud and greatcoats and other articles flying about had to be dug out. Made our way back to camp the other picquets &c converging and enjoyed the luxury of a wash and a half holiday. The naval men quartered on us have been taken in hand by the men and some great yarns are being exchanged. 
