Perhaps it was the thunder of the guns that started me writing poetry, perhaps it was the rest in Bed. I think the latter coupled with the novelty of having two or three nice nurses and a sweet Sister to look after me. I know that since I left Hospital and the Nurses I have not felt like writing Poetry, it is hard enough to write a decent letter, When up at Wallington I felt more like reading, Mr. Horton has a very good library, books of all sorts. Science, History, Classic Literature, Botany etc. and a fine assortment of good Novels. I read several books "For God and the Czar" a story of Russia, and the methods of dealing with any who were unfortunate enough to offend those in Power. "The Servers" another rather good Story of Russia. A young Russian Prince, the hero whose sole aim is to help his people." Clementina another good novel ? and another I have forgotten the name of for the moment, it was recomended by Mrs. Horton as a rather unusual novel, so I read it then I read "Malice in Kultur Land" it is only a short book and is simply a Parody on Alice in Wonderland ? it was all the rage when it came out. Now perhaps I had better tell you something of the Family. Mr. H. is a great believer in Education, and says that he is going to give his children the best he can then they must make the most they can of it. I enjoyed talking to him, on various topics. Australian Politics being one. Mrs. Horton is a dear little woman and did everything possible to make me at home. and she told me to tell you if I got back to Aus. how much she looked forward to receiving your letters. Harold, a rather Keen student of Chemistry, etc also very keen on getting into the Flying Corp. we got on well together. Edgar is rather a queer youngster loves Botany, and nature, but is not over fond of school and I dont fancy he is very smart so far as lessons are concerned. for my own part I dont fancy that will do him much harm. he is very quiet but a nice youngster. Elsie, is sometimes quite the young Lydie, but Mrs. H. has not spoilt her. she is a regular live wire and full of life and is not the least bit shy. now I dont know what else to say about the family so I'll just stop. when you see any relations just give ?em all my love and tell them I'm still well. also the Goonigal Folk. say that Photo of Dot holding Babs. Dot looks a regular dragon in it I must write and find out whether she was feeling savage about something or whether the Camera was to blame. Now I must Ring off with heaps of Love to All from your Loving son Chas.
I have not heard anything of Simmons since I left France I wrote to him the other day and addressed to Horseferry Rd.