Hughes brought forward a policy that they did not like, so they did not wait to see whether the country would derive any direct benefit they simply, rejected it, and condemned Hughes. yet amongst them we find a few who admit that though they were strongly opposed to Hughes and his party before the war. At the present time he is the only man that has a policy worth supporting. Humans are a strong lot surely. Guess I?d best let the Sub. drop for awhile. Simmons my mate left some time ago for Blighty for Six months on that side Lucky dog. he had only just returned from 10 days furlough during which time he enjoyed himself. some, he told us when he came back of some of his experiences one of which I give you. "I might tell you before I go further that Bill is a member of the Y.M.C.A. and lives right up to his principles.. but never preaches. well he was speaking to a Padre over here and the old Gent, gave him a card to hand in at the Y.M.C.A at Birmingham. Sim visited the Y.M.C.A. and was welcomed by a middle aged lady who was rather doubtful about allowing him to stop there unless he promised not to come home the "Worse" Bill doesn't drink.. so he assured her that she need have no fears, and produced the Padre's card. That settle the Biz. Bill was forthwith invited to visit the good Ladys home if he should feel inclined, a convenient day was named and after thinking over it for some time Bill found himself at the house. Then his troubles started it was one of the finest private residences in Birm. In fact Bill says a palace." so he began to beat a retreat, but a heavy shower forced him to take refuge in the Porch, so he pushed the Bell push and a Trim little maid immediately appeared and ushered him into the receiving room once there he began to wish he was away. The hostess appeared, and poor Bill felt very awkward and out of place as he says that he had never been in a palace before. After noon tea arrived and the cup of Bills misery was full. There was a neat Maid holding cakes, Bread But, etc. in front of him and he had to think hard. so he decided to just be natural and act as though in his own home and allmost before he realised it, found that the visit was going to be quite a huge success all went well. After noon tea finished. The rain over