
chop a little wood and clean up. Rested in the afternoon but wrote a few letters and spent the evening quietly. Kernot our sergeant was brought home carried dead drunk & had had a whiskey night with the S.M. & Q.M.S. and several privileged N.C.O's.25.11.16 Rained continuously all day and our work made things very miserable. First our brilliant corporal mistook the quarter for the 5 and when I told him it was the quarter replied "Never mid, you fall in and do as you're told. An argument with Tonkin ensued and things looked lively. However, fell in again at the proper time and no roll was called. proceeded to work. Laid about a 1/2 mile of track pulled it up and put down heavier stuff and to finish off transplanted a set of points found it wouldn't fit where we wanted it and then our major found a new place altogether. Came home wet through at 3.45 and went to the wood to get some firewood which I chopped and then had tea. Got to bed and hung my things to dry and had cocoa for supper and finished more letters.26.11.16 Raining heavily this morning and awful weather but nevertheless we set out a bit late for our work and got wet through in no time. Working now just below Trones Wood putting down more rail. Knocked off at 3.25 and took a short cut home along the railway line alongside which is being made a strong wide corduroy road. By the side we struck a collection of about 40 or 50 15" shells evidently used by the armoured train. Wonderful big things they are. The track is evidently the location of the old German Railway. Further on we came to the sausage balloon which had been up for a trial and which came down for the observers. The observer was an officer - a very keen and fine looking fellow accompanied by a corporal. Both were strapped into an equipment attached to two parachutes hanging on the  side. Everything looked very clean and I noticed a ventometer on the car and the balloon was worked by a lovely motor on a motor wagon attached to a thin steel rope of about 1/2 ". Carried home some wood on the way and chopped it before tea. Got a parcel of cake & a letter from Mother and Bill. Ingram got a fine parcel also. On guard to-night from 8 - 11 and will write letters. Ingram goes on 11 - 2  and I have the morning off and have to carry the tea to the workers. Cleared up in the afternoon. Artillery quiet but Fritz threw a lot of shells on the billets round here last night.27.11.16 Didn't get up until about 10 and then cleaned things up a bit and at 11.30 set out with the tea with Bill Ingram. After dinner saw one of our planes descend near Delville Wood on fire. The pilot played fine and manoeuvred coming down to keep the flames blowing behind him. Got some more wood from Bernafay and chopped all the afternoon which was clear and many Boches came over dodging in the clouds. However, our Archies kept peppering although shooting was difficult. Spent the evening reading and wrote up completely my letters. Artillery especially heavy guns active on both sides from 4 to 9 P.M. Frost this morning and foggy. Clear afternoon.28.11.16 Very foggy all day and only 5 of the section were working as it was the others day off. nearly worked round the curve now. 7 letters Oct 16 mail to-day. Read all the evening and performed some toilet operations. Bed at 9 P.M. Artillery quiet.29.11.16 usual routine and pushed trucks of rails all day. Carried home a duckboard each to add to the beauty of the home. Chopped wood until dark and after tea had a shave and carried out some repairs to the undergarments. Foggy all day and very cold in the afternoon. Artillery active in places.30.11.16 Dull and cloudy all day. Usual routine. Cocoa for supper.1.12.16 Did little in the morning and only loaded two rail trucks