<p class="page" id="a2703004">[Page 4]</p>
<p>[Transcriber's notes:<br/>This diary covers the period from 18th May to 18th August 1915.  The Bulla, with its load of 100 injured mules, 30 nondescript sheep and 40 bags of mail, is ordered from Imbros Island to Alexandria.  After arrival there they discharge their cargo but remain another month.  Little happens during this period and the wireless officers have little work to do so Gilroy spends the time in leisure activities, such as sailing and sightseeing on shore.  There is a little excitement when the USA North Carolina runs aground and has difficulty in getting off.  Rumours circulate that the Bulla is to return to Australia, but finally orders are received to sail to England.  Although Gilroy does not specifically mention it, other sources state that the Bulla was carrying zinc concentrates bound for the UK.<br/>They sail first for Gibraltar; as they enter waters where German submarines are operating, the two Wireless Officers are each required to work two six-hour shifts each per day.  They stop briefly there to re-coal, but Gilroy, with other officers, is permitted to leave to dock area and tour the township.  They now enter very dangerous waters, as Germany is using many submarines to attempt to blockade England from overseas supplies.  Gilroy mentions that few cargo ships have wireless telegraphy whereas those that do, such as the Bulla, receive warnings and advice on dangerous locations and can navigate around them.  He notes that none of six ships sunk on one day had wireless.  He gives numerous reports of telegraph activity concerning ships being attacked by submarines, often by gun fire while surfaced.  The Bulla is frequently interrogated by allied warships before being allowed to proceed.  They arrive at the gap passage in the antisubmarine net which runs from Folkeston to France, where they collect a pilot and proceed to the mouth of the Thames and on to an anchorage off Greenhithe where Gilroy first goes ashore.  The ship is soon moved to Victoria Dock where it remains for some three weeks with a brief period in dry dock for de-fouling.<br/>Having few duties on board, Gilroy spends his time exploring London and its attractions which he describes in some detail.  In common with many "Colonials" of past years, he is overjoyed to be in England and to see the sights he has only read about.  .He strikes up a friendship with the local priest, Fr Davidson, and spends some time with him, including a tour of Westminster Cathedral and Abbey, and a monastery.  He also attends numerous theatre shows and observes many events in the City including a major recruiting campaign.  He is fortunate in wearing a uniform which reduces the chances of harassment on such occasions. At the invitation of the Senior Wireless Officer, Mr Witt, he spends a weekend with an Australian family, the Newtons, who live at Sidcup which in 1915 was very much in the country.  Shortly after this the Bulla is ordered to sail to Middlesbrough to load rails for the Victorian Government.  Note that his diary entries have two days labelled July 18th so subsequent dates up to August 1st are in error.  The correct dates are given as [xx].<br/>After an uneventful journey up the coast they enter the River Tees, dock at Middlesbrough and remain there from July 27th until August 15th, the delay primarily due to a shortage of rails for loading.  Gilroy spends much of the time on shore, exploring the town and its surroundings including excursions to the nearby range of hills and to the coast.  He also attends numerous theatre shows, when on shore he is usually accompanied by one or more fellow officers.  He also describes the dockside happenings such as the commissioning of the RN monitors.  The return down the English Channel is expected to be dangerous, so care is taken to ensure the Bulla is in top condition, including the wireless gear.  Once loaded, the ship leaves port and heads into the North Sea, travelling down the English coast, through the Channel net and across to the Bay of Biscay.  Up to this point the Bulla is stoked to achieve her maximum speed of 12 knots and the Wireless Officers each work two six-hour shifts.  Gilroy describes the journey in detail, including the relatively large number of ships they meet during this trip.  The narrative concludes on August 18th, in the remainder of Book 3 he gives a summary of Allied and Enemy forces at the outbreak of war, populations and resources of the combatant countries, and their naval and merchant shipping strengths.  He also gives the names and designations of the transports in use at Gallipoli and concludes with a summary of nearby submarine attacks in early June when they were coming to England.]</p>
<p>[Freehand sketch of author being chased by the Devil]</p>
<p>