  
 23rd and looking further away one could plainly see the Island of "Imbros".  We returned back to camp through Simandria feeling very tired but quite satisfied with our tour. 
 24th Had a quiet day in camp today.  Australian mail arrived this afternoon.  All having a good rest. 
 25th Today had a good walk to top of a high hill about 4 miles away from Camp.  Sap Tickle & I scaled to the top of the mountain & while the rest of the party  Saps King, Smith Murray H & Taylor & Private Gridler went on to Therma.  We were able to get a splendid view from the top of this mountain which is the highest point on the Island - could see all over the Island & as the day was an ideal one the view was very fine.  We descended the mountain on the western side & went to Therma which is famous for its hot springs.  Here we joined the rest of our party & had a good meal & then a hot bath which was appreciated very much by us all.  We all arrived back at camp after about a 10 mile walk feeling rather tired but well satisfied with our outing. 
 26th We did an hours Coy drill in the forenoon otherwise had a quiet day.  In the afternoon Sap Tickle & I took a walk to Portiano, a village about 2 miles away & made a few purchases.  Things quiet. 
 27th A quiet day in camp resting.  Nothing doing.  Heard that the Allies have had important success Western Front. 
 28th Coy drill forenoon.  In the afternoon Cpl Lunday Sap Lloyd & I went for a walk through large Hospital camp about 1 mile away & almost to R.G. Pier about 2 miles away.  Hospital Camp is a very fine camp.  Reported British troops in Western camp captured. 20,000 troops - German - also large Russian success. 
 29-9-15 Had a med inspection today.  Cannot say yet what the result will be.  In the afternoon had a game of football with some of the boys.  No special news to hand.  All having a good spell - (rest.) 
 30th Nothing fresh of importance.  Still having a good rest 
 1-10-15 Nothing doing of importance.  All the troops appear to be having a good rest although they appear to be having a good deal of Drill. 
 2nd Today Cpl Banks Saps Murray H & Gridler & Roberts took a Greek boat & sailed out to the "Floridian" (Canteen ship) for the purpose of procuring stores for the rest of the Coy.  Were successful & had enjoyable time 
 3rd No Drill or fatigues today.  Late in the afternoon attended service - address by Revd McKenzie - open air - there was a fair large crowd.  One of our Artillery was drowned here today.  He sank owing to heart failure.  We are having very warm weather.  Good reports from Western Front 
 4th Not much doing today.  Just knocking around having a fairly good time.  Good news still coming through from the European Front. 
 5th Today Cpls Lundy, Banks, Saps: Murray H & Gough, Tickle & I hired a Greek sailing boat & had good time visiting some of the boats in the harbor.  The first boat we visited was the "Blenheim" Cruiser from there we went to the Garigan Head - a supply ship.  This ship had about 20 shots fired at it from a Submarine while on her way from Alexandria to Lemnos but a French Destroyer came on the scene & chased the submarine which it is thought was sunk.  We also visited the great liner "Olympic" which is crowded with English Tommies - it is said about 