  
 25-11-15 Had Infantry parties working on chambers for spare ammunition.  Today our Artillery has not fired a shot.  Trying to deceive the enemy into thinking that we are evacuating the position which it is believed he already thinks.  Moving some Guns into fresh positions.  Also practically no rifle fire in trenches.   Light wind - very cold. 
 26th No Artillery fire from our guns today.  Enemy sent over number from Howitzer - also a good many from "Beachy Bill".  Wind sprang up very suddenly during the early part last night & we also had very heavy rain - accompanied by very vivid lightning & heavy thunder. Windy today with little rain. 
 27th Had working parties on Am. chambers today.  Wind very cold & a little rain.  Things very quiet.  No firing from our Artillery, not much from Enemy.  Heard that French & British troops have inflicted heavy loses on Turks a   [indecipherable] not confirmed officially 
 28th Things quiet again today.  A little firing by enemys guns - who sent over a few heavy Howitzer shells.  Some time during the night snow set in accompanied by heavy wind.  A few inches have fallen & it is extremely & enemy [indecipherable] is very sloppy.  It is almost impossible to get up some of the tracks it is so slippery.  It has snowed a little at intervals all day, still very cold & the ground is now frozen.  On our 7 day reserve ration 
 29th The chief feature today was a heavy bombardment of our lines - chiefly in the "Lone Pine" "Sector" by the enemy's Artillery.  The bombardment was intense & our Casualty list is heavy - not less than 150 - probably about 30 killed.  Heavy Howitzers were used 8".2 - 5"12 lb shrapnel 75 & bombs. Our guns did very little in rep'ly.  Had infantry party working on Bomb tunnel in "Browns Dip".  Intensely cold - a little snow falling & the ground frozen hard. 
 30th Still very cold - the ground being frozen hard but the weather is fine & bright.  Land guns doing very little on either side.  A couple off Cruisers & the Battleship - Lord Nelson - did some heavy firing a little farther down the coast.  Had Infantry party working on Bomb chamber.  On our 7 reserve ration. 
 1-12-15 Nice & fine today not quite so cold as it has been lately.  Today a good many shrapnel shells got into our camp & caused some casualties.  Sap. Gorham & one of the 24th Batt were killed, while Sap Garden, Fowler, Masterson & another were wounded.  Our Artillery did a good deal of shelling today & the enemy a fair amount. 
 2nd Much warmer today.  Artillery fairly lively - not much from enemy.  Still working on bomb chamber. 
 3rd Usual work today.  Artillery fairly busy & a good deal done by enemys guns.  Very heavy bombardment by the "Nelson" & a Cruiser of a position a little down the Coast from "Gaba Tepe" 