  
 drawn.  Some Cross & Blackwell strawberry jam had been drawn when some of the boys thought they saw a golden opportunity & so took 4 tins apricot jam - the bane of our existence & while the Q.M. was absent exchanged them for strawberry.  But there were development as S. Mjr of 2nd F Coy had witnessed the deed promptly reported the happening to our Q.M. who again reported to our O.C. when there was something doing  - the whole Coy had to fall in & the tent our tent was searched & the jam duly found.  However after getting a good rating from the O.C. who duly emphasised the fact on the perpertrators of the dastardly deed that if he were to push the matter they would all get 6 months hard labor, ordered the jam to be returned & the incident closed.  Looked on as a huge joke by the boys!  Was over to "Tommy" Ordinance this morning. 
 23rd Today again was windy.  In the afternoon a N Zealand team of Rugby players contested a game with a team of Australian players.  Result easy victory for N.Z's - about 36 to Nil.  Also Military sports and drilling competition - won by 13th Batt. 
 24th No church parade today.  Sap. King & I went across to the Canadian Hospital to see Sap. McKee & Cpl Masters.  Found Masters had left for England or elsewhere .  McKee progressing slowly.  Wind with some rain in the morning. 
 25th Our boys played Soccer against an Artillery team today & won 2 to 1.  Nothing fresh going . 
 26th 1st Brgd leaving tomorrow morning.  We expect to be leaving within a few days.  Nothing else fresh doing 
 27th First Brgde got away this morning about 6 a.m.  Had a short Route march in the forenoon full marching order.  Heard that the "Marquette" has been torpedoed between here and Alexandria.  Heard that about 30 Field guns went down beside about two tons ammunition - also N. Zealand 18th F. Hospital.  Said about 600 saved - a number nurses drowned.  Said that some Nurses were astride some of the upturned boats for 7 hours.  Also rumoured that U 17 enemies Submarine was towed into Port late this afternoon.  Still very windy.  Played Soccer against Artillery.  Neither side scored. 
 28th Nothing much doing today.  Things as usual 
 29th Usual Drill & fatigues today.  Have heard nothing fresh.  Things going as usual.  Have had very heavy weather. 
 30th Had to shift camp today on account of being in the Quarrantined area.   The 2nd Brgde are now isolated from the rest of the camp on account of some throat trouble breaking out, Mumps or Dyptheria being the trouble. 
 31st Nothing of much interest today.  In the morning we had the usual Church Parade.  At night I attended service in the Y.M.C.A. marquee - service conducted by Mr Thompson 
 1-11-15 Was up before our O.C. this morning on a charge of disobeying orders.  Charge laid by L. Cpl Bank.  Result: Dismissed after a short lecture without a stain on my unblemished character!  Usual Drill & fatigues.  On sick Parade in morning. 
 2nd A nice day.  Played soccer against an Artillery team & won 3 to 2.  This makes our fith match since coming here of which we have won 4 &  drawn 1.  Nothing else of importance 