  
 8,000.  All appeared to be very pleased to see us & we had a job to get away from them, got back about 8 p.m. after having a good outing. 
 6th Today we played cricket against the 2nd Field Ambulance & won 119 to 56. 
 7th Still having a good rest.  Today there were several cricket matches played & some soccer matches also between some naval teams.  At night the 1st Brd & the 3rd Field hospital gave a concert in the Y.M.C.A. marquee & went off very well - the boys being in great good humour. 
 8th Nothing fresh today.  Doing a little Drill and fatigues 
 9th This morning I went to the Dentist & had a tooth filled.  Nothing much doing of interest.  Having good rest. 
 10th Attended Church parade this morning & again at night in the Y.M.C.A. marquee.  Revd McKenzie held service & had a good attendance. 
 11th Tuesday the 1st & 2nd F. Engineers played the 2nd F. Amb. cricket & lost 114 to 64.  Nothing of importance except wild rumours. 
 12th Coy still resting & do not know when we will be going back to the Peninsular.  This afternoon Sap Lloyd & I went for a walk across the country & had an enjoyable time getting some good scenery 
 13th Nothing going of much interest to note today. Doing a little Drill & fatigues & having a good rest.  Revd Wood lectured in Y.M.C.A. subject "German Culture and how it led up to the war".  Good lecture. 
 14-10-15 Did nothing today but a little Drill and fatigues and had a stroll across the hills in the evening 
 15th Things going just the same.  Troops drilling & resting 
 16th Nothing fresh today.  Had a walk around the sports ground this afternoon.  There were several boats crews playing socker with Battln teams.  Also there were several cricket matches in progress.  The boys playing a lot of football & cricket now & it appears to be helping them to get fit. 
 17th This morning there was a full church Parade.  We attended Service with the 2nd Brgde.  At night I attended service in the Y.M.C.A. marquee.  During the day thee was nothing doing of interest 
 18 Usual Drill & fatigues this morning.  At night there was a concert in the Y.M.C.A. marquee in commemoration of the Anniversary of the day we left Australia, it being just 12 months since we left.  The concert was a good success & the marquee was not nearly large enough to hold the crowds, hundreds sitting outside. 
 19 This afternoon Sappr Lloyd & I went across to the Hospital to see Dr McKee who has been there for about 5 week.  He is getting better but is far from well.  Afterwards we took a walk across the hills & had a good walk.  It is rumoured tonight that the "Australians and Gurkas have taken "Hill 971" & are holding it.  We all hope that the news is correct. 
 20th Nothing fresh today usual Drill & fatigues.  A concert in the Y.M.C.A. marquee at night given by the 4th Ambulance was very good.  N.Z's & Battlns Artists took part. 
 21st Usual Drill & fatigues.   No fresh news.  Think  news about 971 not true. 
 22nd A wild bleak windy day.  Play soccer today against a team from the 1st Battln & we won 2 nil.  A rather amusing incident happened this morning after the rations for the day had been 