Wilson said, "even so late as September 27th Germany herself has made coming to terms with her impossible." They are, he said "without honour, and do not intend justice".
I think if a vote were taken among soldiers, that is here, (and those on the western front have even more cause to detest the German) there would be a tremendous majority in favour of hammering Germany until she surrendered absolutely without condition, and placed herself and her future unreservedly at the mercy of the Allies.
Here in Palestine the advance, when one views the amount of territory covered, and the character of the country, and the tremendous amount of booty and prisoners secured, reads like a page from a romance. The Turkish Empire in Palestine is no more. It has vanished, annihalated by the brilliantly and courageously executed conceptions of a master-mind. Soldiers speak of General Allenby with reverence almost. No word of praise is to high. Deservedly he has been placed on a pedestal of affection and popularity by the men who serve under him that has been reached by few Commanders. Here in Palestine at the present moment the G.O.C.'s are faced with the fact that there is no Turkish Army to oppose them. Before they could always place their finger on the map at a given line and say that the Turkish front was there, but not so now. There is no Turkish front.
17th I had a very, Ptolemy Philadelphus 300 yrs. B.C., interesting day yesterday. Two of us obtained leave to go into Amman to see the ruins of the Coliseum there. I had not imagined that it would be anything like it really is. It stands just on the left as one enters the town from the Eastern side. Five huge granite columns, the caps richly carved with leaves, support four great blocks of stone, each probably nine feet by three in diameter. These blocks are also carved in a most elaborate fashion. 
This was evidently one of the entrances to the Coliseum, but it seems to have had many. Most of the work is in wonderful preservation, when one considers the years that must have passed since the slaves of some mighty monarch toiled and sweated in its erection. Level with the ground are two entrances, with highly ornamented doorways, one on either side, leading into what was evidently the places where animals were kept. On the first terrace are two doors on each side opening into galleries built of enormous stone blocks. These evidently served as an exit for the vast crowds which doubtless patronised the shows.
 On the second