has sprung all the love and charity, the kindly deeds and words done and spoken in His name ever since. A little to the right is the Altar of the Crib. The Crib itself is now in Rome. Directly opposite is the Altar of the Magi where tradition says the wise men laid their gifts before the Babe. In the passage in front of the Altar of the Nativity hang many beautiful lamps, mostly silver, some the gift of European and English notables. One is from a prince of Austria, another from an old time King of England. Set in the white marble floor of the Manger under the Altar, is a great silver star, the gift of the third Napoleon, surrounding it the inscription "Hic de Virgine Maria, Jesus Christus natus est". Round the star fifteen lamps burn night and day, the property of the three Sects occupying the building. The walls of the Grotto are protected by a fireproof linen, the Gift of the French Govt. 
From the Sacred Grotto we descended to St. Jerome's Chapel. One window bearing a representation of the Saint, lights up this small place. Here St. Jerome translated the Bible into that version known as the "Vulgate" from the original Hebrew. Then the tomb of St. Eusebius. Further on, in a room excavated from the rock, are tombs, two face each other, St. Paula and her daughter and the Tomb of St. Jerome. Then we climbed up a flight of stairs and we were in the Church of St. Catherine once more. 
Our inspection was over. Nothing remains but to pay the Guide, and give something to the Satellite from the Greek arm of the Basilica, who had provided us with small candles, and who now came whining for "Backsheesh". "Backsheesh" is the curse of both Egypt and Palestine and here in this land it has established itself even in those places which from time immemorial have been regarded as sacred by Christian peoples, until it seems these places are now a source of a livelihood to innumerable loafers than anything else. It disgusts one, leaves him with a feeling of nausea, and the petty jealousies and squabbles, which have taken place in these sanctuaries deepens his disgust still more.
Why should the Catholics, Greek or Latin