in front was across, so it was a series of 20 yd. advances until our turn came. In the dim light among the foliage the Jordan looked very pretty, as we rattled over, the trees and undergrowth lining its bank dipping to the rapidly flowing stream. We had not much time to spend looking at it, however, as once across on to the low banks of the other side, we were quickly in trouble. The ground here is like a quagmire. Branches and bush had been laid down to form a road, but even then it was a difficult pull with six horses. After getting across the flat we climbed an exceedingly steep hill, the position the Turks had occupied earlier, when they cut the advance Infantry up with machine gun fire as they advanced across the pontoon and over the flat.
We went round a long winding spur of the hill and finally descended into the valley again, at about 2.30 A.M. on the morning of the 24th. Our Camp is about 8 or 10 miles from Jericho now, and Jerusalem can be seen away in the distance as one looks between Beth Hogla and Jericho. Gilgal, the place where the Ark of the Covenant was built, must be in between us and Beth Hogla, I should think.
Today, the 25th, we are having some more wet weather, but minus the cold we experienced in the mountains. Johnny is retreating all the while. Yesterday he was in the hills quite close at hand. To-day he is miles away. The Second and Third regiments have gone out following him up, and it is expected that Es Salt will fall today. 
In this place typhus is raging, both among the Turks and the civilian population. As many as 3000 cases are reported, and the deaths run from 30 to 100 daily. 
Four of our sandcarts have gone with the Regiments, but whether we (the heavy transport) will move is as yet undecided. The Y.M.C.A. car was along yesterday and distributed some comforts among the Brigades which were very acceptable. Amongst them were some copies of the Palestine News, a paper issued by the Egyptian Expeditionary Forces. The Hotel Fast in Jerusalem has an advertisement on the front page that took my fancy. "Hotel Fast, Jerusalem. Visitors will greatly oblige the management by bringing their own rations with them. Hot baths, clean beds, arm chairs".