railway is cut yet or not we have not heard, but Johnny is going back just as fast as he can go. He seems to have no desire to fight. On the Jordan a couple of days ago two troops, 60 men at the most, captured 400 Turks. They seem to be just laying down their arms and surrendering, glad, apparently to be out of the fight. They are very miserably clothed, and have a weak emaciated appearance, as though they were half-starved. One lot of about 500 who passed us on the Jordan were indeed famished with thirst and hunger. I have seen stock in drought-time in Australia go mad and rush water, but these Turks were quite as bad. They just fought for a place, and threw themselves into the stream and drank with their faces in it, like beasts. A Divisional Commander and his staff went through on the same day, the 22nd. 
We have had a wearying time in the saddle. We left Wadi Es Sultan at about 8 P.M. on the 21st, reached Wadi Oajah about 11 P.M., were on the way again at 8 A.M. on the 22nd and rode without a halt, except for watering till 2-30 P.M. We were then at the extreme point of the former Turkish position, almost under the shadow of ?Molly's pimple? as the boys call it. We rested there for about 3 hrs. and then rode 8 or 10 miles to an outpost reaching there and getting the guns into position at 12-30.
The poor horses had no spell even then. They were all linked together which prevents them lying down and saddles were not removed. "Stand to" was at 3.30. At five we moved out, went away up the Jordan Valley and drew rations, and then came straight on to here, with only one halt for a feed, a feed on the Jordan early in the morning, on a rotten track, and we reached here at 12-30 A.M. in the morning of the 24th. We move on again "some time" today bound for "somewhere".
25th We left Es Salt on the 24th passing through the town on the way to Amman. The road through the town is strewn with the flotsam and jetsam of battle. Dead Turks, some dreadfully mutilated by bombs, and dead mules, camels and horses, with a tremendous litter of broken transport and some guns, lined the way filling the air with an indescribable stench, and bringing home to one with increasing force what an uncivilized, damnable thing modern "Civilized" warfare is, and the effect of war on men who can estimate.
Lying sprawled and broken in the roadside, having died a horrible death, one sees a Dead human, probably carelessly rolled to the side to avoid being ridden over, and now being covered by the dust of the endless traffic and one has little more than a glance in passing, and certainly no time for pity to bestow on him. When there is time, when men are not too busy making others like him, he will be buried.
We are now Es Salt is a town of, in normal times, some 15,000 people but is practically deserted now. They are a wild, black, fierce