we leave the charms of the bull ring behind and climb the steep ascent to these. The stones used on the construction of the Coliseum are mere pebbles alongside the huge blocks lying in mighty disorder here. Great circular bases for columns, which are nearly six feet through, and stand two feet high, the pillars which formerly stood upright on them now lying around. One of these pillars in five sections measured eighteen yards in length, and there are dozens of them. Pillars, bases, and caps lie about in rich profusion, all one time of sparkling polished red granite now corroded and dull by the action of time. The whole top of the hill measuring some 15 or 20 acres of ground is a mass of tumbled stones, all at one time forming a wonderful city that was perhaps unequalled in its magnificence. the noble city that stood here 
On the south-western side portion of one of the buildings still stands, and we entered it by an arched and crumbling doorway. The carving in here is superb. Whole trees are carved in the solid stone, fluted pillars, and scroll work, with a profusion of leaves, fruit and flowers are around one in this rich room. Arched doorways elaborately carved lead to other chambers now blocked by rubbish. The stone work of the domed roof is splendid.
In one place, the action of time and weather has been such that the central pillars, formerly standing on great blocks of solid stone are now supported by mere threads of rock the size of a man's wrist. Bats flit out of the ruined chambers and in some the Turks have laid their dead, uncovered. Round the whole of the city a vast wall has run enclosing the whole hill top. Only portions of it stand now, but much of this is in an excellent state of preservation. Who built these places I do not know yet, but they are monuments of the builders? art, and a stirring object lesson on the decay of Empires.
Then we found the Catacombs. The whole of the city underneath apparently, is honeycombed. We could only enter one of the vast entrances. It was too dark to go further. A match shows as a speck of flame only in the intense darkness, and casts no light, and it is cold as a freezing room. I am going in again provided with lights to make an examination if the tunnels are clear.
23 Oct. On the 21st I went in to Amman again with light this time, to see what I could find in the way of open passages under the old Roman city. The result was disappointing. We inspected several openings, but all are blocked, some with the accumulated rubbish of years, others by rough walls erected by Arabs or Bedouins. There will be a great field for exploration societies here.
Every day now sees the skies duller. Day by day