ruins of Qulast ed Doumm, or Castle of Blood. These ruins are very extremely ancient, and built of a very red stone, from which it is generally supposed it takes its name. The present ruins were built by the Crusaders, and were spoken of by very early writers, but according to Authorities, they only replaced a much older construction. From the summit of these ruins a magnificent view can be obtained, taking in the Valley of the Jordan, and the Mount of Temptation, with the Monastry on its heights.
We were to go on to Jericho from here, but it was decided at night that only a portion of the Ambulance was going; and to my disappointment our limber was not included. 
We were to go back to El Khuddr, by way of Jerusalem. At eight o'clock that evening we were hooked in and went our different ways. The rain, which had only been intermittent throughout the day commenced again, with occasional sleet and a biting wind. This we had to face all the way back to the Holy City, a weary journey, and being night, any object of interest on the way was passed unconsciously, except one place on the right of the road, where we attempted to water, but which had gone dry, which I took to be the Fountain of the Apostles.
We arrived on the Mt. of Olives, after a very rapid zig zag ascent, at about one o'clock in the morning of the 22nd. The ground chosen for our Camp was a quagmire, and it was a rather low-spirited mob crowd that made their beds in the rain that night. Still even then there were jokes cracked and songs hummed as the billy boiled. The same morning, at about 8.30 we were on the way again, once more through Jerusalem, and arrived at El Khudr, frozen through and through, about a little after midday. All the rest of that day it rained, sleeted, and froze.
The 23rd dawned in a similar state of icy misery. I stayed under the blankets all the time not occupied in attending to the horses.
At about 4.30 P.M. we received orders to yoke up again and proceed again to the Mt. of Olives. These endless fruitless