<p class="page" id="a7554001">[Page 1]</p>
<p>By Mr F Smith a member of the Aust Div. Cleaning Stn working with the Aust. Mtd. Division in Palestine during final operations against the Turks.<br/>Sept. 12-18. At present our section is camped at Ludd. Big preparations being made and it is evident another stunt which we hope will be the last is about to commence. On evening of 17th we shifted from Ludd to a place near the German settlement or twon of Wilhelm. Brigade is being camped nearby. 3rd L.H.B. and an Imperial Division also camped here. Not a hostile aeroplane had been seen for weeks due to our superiority. The last dozen or so that did venture to cross to our lines did not return all fell victims to our planes. On 18th we passed through Jaffa camping at Sarona.<br/>Sept. 19. About 5 a.m. short but very heavy bombardment heard North of Jaffa. Daylight saw our brigade on the move and about 9 a.m. we passed the first fruits of victory, about 2000 Turkish prisoners at a place called Sheik Muannis on th plain of Sharon. Scored a Turkish Officer's Gallipoli Star as a souvenir from one of our prisoners. Travelled all day through heavy sand. We walked and the horses were unequal to the long heavy pull, and about 6 p.m. they were done in and we had to camp at a place near Tabsor, just behind the Turkish first line of defence. Here we had to lighten loads even to the extent of throwing <strike>the</strike> off the necessary equipment. Here we also found numerous relics and a few wounded still uncollected. Trench system very complete especially so at Redoubt on hills commanding surrounding country. Some had suffered very heavily, trenches being very knocked about. Here were also German machine gun positions and underground kitchens, etc. However leaving at daylight the next day we turned in at N.E. directly passing through the villages of Misken and El Tiren, resting for dinner, , beyond the latter that afternoon, about 2 p.m. Misken was deserted and judging by trenches around it had evidently been their <strike>section</strike> second line of defence. Few dead here including an Austrian officer in full equipment (pockets empty). At Misken was a Turkish cemetery. A few revolvers and field glasses were picked up by some of the fortunate. About a mile further on was one of our planes which through engine trouble had to descend on the morning of the 19th. The pilot and observer had been taken prisoner by some German officers but an hour or so later French cavalry appeared pursuing and capturing the Germans who released their prisoners. We inspected the aeroplane and whilst there a lorry arrived with spare parts, food, water, etc. We refilled water bottles and joined the unit (which had left Et Tiren) on the metal road from Ludd to Tul Kerram, a railway junction station. Very heavy travelling until reaching this road. At a small Jewish village (deserted) we refilled our bottles and inspected what had evidently been a Turkish General's Headquarters with concrete paths and elaborate though small buildings. About 6 p.m. we</p>