<p class="page" id="a7554002">[Page 2]</p>
<p>2.<br/>arrived at Tul Keram where we picked up Duggan and a few others who had push bikes and consequently arrived earlier. We also came across a Tuckish provision train full of provisions under an Indian guard.  Dug and Co. had watched their opportunity (and the guards) and soon ratted honey quinces and eggs by the dozen which we found waiting ready for us on the roadside. Eggs-a-cook- were cheap and plentiful next day. Tulkeram station had been blown up and was undergoing repairs to line and engines (2) when we arrived. This was the first place we pitched a hospital which was on 20th instant, and where we first received wounded next day. Imperial C.C.S. with Indian doctors and orderlies arrived and took over. Here we scored quite a number of German maps of all parts and stamps galore. The road divided hereabouts one continuing in a Northerly direction to Acre and the other going practically due East, then South-east to Samaria and Nablus. We took the Northerly route next day, the road being only fair and not metalled until we reached a place called El. Medgel 18 miles from the junction and where we camped for the night. An early start next day brought us to Kerkur 6 miles further on about 9 a.m. next day. Here we saw thousands of prisoners who all appeared hungry and t thirsty. However there were springs close handy and the A.S.C. were making preparations for feeding them which in itself was a big item. Leaving Kerkur about midday we continued in a N.E. direction, a number of us walking through hilly country and passing a few stragglers of prisoners who evidently were unable to keep up with the column. We walked fairly fast and soon left the column behind. Part of the way we managed to get on motor lorries and when we arrived at a village called Musmus we waited until the column caught us up again. We did not know at which point we were going to stop and camp and as we did not wish to have to retrace our steps we halted. On arrival at the column we moved on on foot camping on the Plains of Esdraelion at the foot of the hills. It was dark on our arrival and we were not quite sure as to the locality we were going to camp and whilst waiting we inspected some German motor lorries which were being used by the Mechanical Transport. About nine next morning we moved off on route to El Afuleh about 6 miles distant. It being the junction of the railway line Acre to Southern Palestine, and Acre to Beisan, thence North to Damascus. Here large quantities of spirits, rums, Irish Whisky, etc were found, as well as stores of revolvers and accoutrements. The branch of the railway South passed through Janin the H.Q. of  aerial forces, and where a large amount of aerial stores, spirits, and 9000 prisoners were taken by the 3rd L.H.B. A large amount of gold in Turkish sovereigns which in some instances were found packed up in ammunition boxes. Reported that &amp;pound:60,000 in gold was also found. Paper money there by the hundreds of thousands of pounds</p>