
[This page comprises a standard printed form with some spaces which have been filled in. The printed words should be self-evident][Name at the top of the page, which is not the same name as William Wiles who wrote this story] L. Little[The printed form begins:]Your story is intended for printing (subject to Editor's discretion and time and space available) in New South Wales ANZAC Memorial, a book to be published before Anzac Day by and for the benefit of the RETURNED SOLDIERS ASSOCIATION of New South Wales.Write on this sheet of paper - both sides - to start. If you cannot get all your story on this paper, continue on any paper that is handy. When finished, post toMr A.G. Stephens,Editor, N.S.W. ANZAC MemorialBox 711, G.P.O.,Sydney
Suggestions1. Answer the question.2. Write names and dates very plainly - or, better, put names in printed letters.3. Write any old way - so long as you give the gist of the thing. The Editor will put in the grammar or the spelling if they are not there.4. DO IT NOW. Post at once to Box Seven-Eleven, G.P.O., Sydney. Time's short. Don't be crowded out.Fill in these lines [The details have been hand written]Name and Rank. Wiles, William Pvt.Battalion. 1stDate when left Australia on service. 18 Oct 1914Date when you came back to Australia. 16 March 1916Answer this question:What was the BRAVEST deed you saw with your own eyes from the day you left Australia till the day you came back?Write now and post at once to A.G.Stephens, Editor, Box 711, G.P.O., Sydney[The following is hand written by Pvt Little]The Bravest deed that I witnessed whilst on the [Gallipoli] Peninsular was performed by Capt Street of the First Battalion on or about the end of May 1915 4th June 1915. The place where the deed was performed was at what is now known as Street's Post between Courtney's Post & Bridges Gully. The O.C. Commanding the 1st Batt called for volunteers to go under the Command of Lieut Street as he was then practically every man volunteered but as numbers were not required eight men were eventually picked to attack the Machine Gun with the object of either disabling or Capturing it. This particular Machine Gun was situated in what was known as the German Officers trench & was of Great annoyance & was doing considerable damage to the men at Quinn's Post