[Page 68]
our stough to them. Another chap &amp; I went for some went for some water &amp; when coming back a shrapnel burst in our rear I dropped the rear quick &amp; lively &amp; dropped of 6 inches on the ground neadless to say he did also, the bullets fell all around us but did not hit us. They are dropping shrapnel in our valley how they found the range it is hard to say but one of our rubbish pits was being burnt its contents I mean. I think they found the range from the smoke from same. Church Services.I may mention that 8.6-15 while some men were swimming some shrapnel shell burst in amongt them killing 8 &amp; wounding 20 men. I am told by my mate Col Bently that it was terrible to see the men some had their arms torn off etc.
28.6.15We went on a fatigue &amp; what a treat we had wood &amp; iron all a long walk. We are getting more return thanks from the Turks. I had E. Eden over to tea last night &amp; had a good talk about Leichhardt. The Navy is shelling Achi Baba still, very heavy to day.
29-6-15The Navy is making things worm down south &amp; continued it all day. Aeroplanes. Shrapnel still paying us a visit. It is hellish hot here. There was a general attack to day 4 [indecipherable]30-6-15Last night a beautiful duststorm sprang &amp; it the wind was carrying tins cans all over the place. The Turks made a attack on our left flank just in front of us. Walkers &amp; edge &amp; they got cut up something terrible. All night long the navy was bombarding down south. Shrapnel was falling all arounds. About one oclock this morning a mule tumbled down a bank to hear the Indian swear one had to laugh.
1-7-15I have found out a little about the attack 29-6-15 our :Boys kidded the Turks they were going to attack of course the Turks showed up &amp; were mown down like sheep 18 000 killed &amp; wounded, &amp; 400 of our boys likewise. Last night a storm payed us a visit it was our christening fire as regards rain we had no covering over our dugout so we huddled in a corner
