<p class="page" id="a6667076">[Page 76]</p>
<p>so I had to put in another day of waiting. Besides, my movement order to take me down here hadn't arrived. Next day Ben came over to see me and say Goodbye. He sympathised with me in having to relinquish the imminent commission but said that he too, was fed up and intended to apply for the 6 months leave that is being given to 1914 men. I don't know whether I told you that I told the A. D. M. S. that I had thought of that but, that he said discharge was the only thing for me. Well I hung round and nothing happened and next morning a motor-cleaner at the chateau told me that the evening before, a motor had come for me from Headquarters to take me to the station, 20 kilometres away, but that I wasn't to be found. I was hopping mad, as I hadn't left the premises, but I could do nothing. After lunch Gullett's driver arrived and I gave him the goods and as he was going fairly near Headquarters I got a lift from him, as far as he went. This was to Corbie and while waiting there for Gullett I had a look round. The fine little Abbey was well slathered, the S. rose window hanging down, outside held by the leads; like the head of a turkey from a poulterer's counter. Great holes were in the roof; and outside, huge chunks of masonry clipped off. Of course the dwellings and other buildings are very badly knocked about, but it's the damage to the Abbey that hurts me. It must have been a most enchanting little place in pre-war days, nestling among its trees on its pretty site. It's a pretty sight now. The infamy of it! From there without much difficulty I got to H. Q. and there explained the fiasco to the camp commandant, who ordered a car to take me to the main road to hop a lorry. The driver however, took me to the chateau at Blangy where I got my things, and a good-natured corps colonel took me in his car to the main road. There, a young Kanuck [slang for Canadian] gave me a lift as far as Amiens. It isn't much damaged. I then hopped another Canadian motor and got to the station at Ailly-sur-Somme where I found that the train which ordinarily left at 6.13 now goes at 9.30!, which meant a six hours wait. As I felt mighty ill, the time seemed all the longer. Whilst moping on the platform a monster Hun railway gun with its ammunition cars, rolled in &mdash; a shade smaller than "Mireille". On her side was daubed "captured by ----Div. Aust. Engineers" but this had been blotted out by "captured by 29th Battalion 8th Brigade A.I.F."</p>