Wed Sept 11
Here we were met by motor char-a-banes and driven to No 3 Stat Hosp. Here we had Break. Porridge, Bacon and Tomato, B and B and Coffee. Went down well too. About 10 we went before the Doctor. He marked me "Tachycardia. Some Hypotrophy" and sent me to No 2 Con. Camp. Had a nice hot bath and change of clothes.
After Tea about 20 of us boarded a motor bus and came thro? Rouen to No 2 Con. Camp. Here we were issued with Blankets and put in Tent R8. 
Thur Sept 12
Went before the Doctor this morning who marked me 1 days no duty and to see him again tomorrow. There is not much doing in Camp and the sooner I'm out of it the better. After Tea a number of us went for a stroll along the Road about a couple of mile from Camp. The Food is not too good, but it is not as bad as it was when I was here with "Oriss" last July 12 months.
Fri 13
Well, I'm hanged if I know where I am now. I've missed a day somewhere. This is Saturday 14 so I'm "bushed".
Anyhow I went to see the quack again this morning and he said I needed a few days rest and P.T., but I said I preferred to be sent to the Base, so he marked me a big A and I am going to the Base on Monday.
After Tea there was a Dance at the Y.M. A Buck dance, no Girls being present. The orchestra supplied the music and it was real good Fun. If the Head Specialist had been there a good number would have been marked a big A.
Sun Sept 15
Glorious day, but hot. Went to Church Parade. Fine, cheery service. Orchestra supplied music. Parson delivered excellent address on "Bad Language". After dinner went into Rouen. Had a good look round city, visited Cathedral. Returned Camp about 8 pm.
Mon 16
The Lord only knows when I'm going to get any mail. Handed in my Blankets this morning and have to parade at 4.30 again to march over to Detail Camp. Hot day.
Attended "Lena Ashwell" Concert at Y.M. Very good. After Tea fell in with crowd marked out and marched over to Detail Camp ready for departure to Base. Only one blanket and the Tent floor was hard.
Tues 17
"Reveille" at 4 a.m. It thundered and Lightened all night and rained like furry. Had no sleep. Breakfast at 4.30. No Candle in Tent. Pitch dark. Started rolling a Blanket round my Leg in mistake for Puttee. Marched down to Rouen Station. Here we got aboard the usual cattle Trucks. "Chevaux 8" and steamed merrily away to Le Havre. We passed thro? a number of Tunnels of considerable Length. 
Saw a number of German prisoners ploughing. The country was very pretty, and the peaceful looking Farms nestling in the valleys were a pleasing contrast to the war area we had passed thro?. Arrived Le Havre about 11.30 Harfleur Station. Had Tea and Bread and Dripping Y.M. and were then allotted to our various Camps. We came to No 24 Camp. Had a wash and Tea at 4.30. After Tea went to Picture Show at Y.M, which was very good.