<p class="page" id="a3257092">[Page 92]</p>
<p>-3- 24th September 1916.</p>
<p>On the night of the 23rd the first Division took Pozieres and we moved up and bivouacked in the original German first line, behind Contalinaison.  The preliminary bombardment must have been terrific.  Nothing but shell holes.  At la Boiselle there is a mine crater which is about 200 yards across the top.  This was the start of the offensive, being blown up a minute before twelve o'clock midnight on 30th June.</p>
<p>On 25th July , we went up into the trenches and took over from the 1st Division under a heavy barrage of fire.  The 20th Batt attempted a raid straight off, but beyond taking a few prisoners did not do much good.</p>
<p>On the 26th the Germans attacked in mass with bombs etc., and for eighteen solid hours we stood up to them, without a breather.  We eventually repulsed them and took 150 yds of their trenches as well.  I couldn't describe the heroism and grit displayed by our boys during this stunt, and they were an eye-opener to the Tommies on both flanks.  I had the gun working hot at this time and generally enjoyed myself in getting a bit of my own back.  Fritz was using gas and lachrymatory shells on us but we were ready for him and beyond added discomfort did not do much harm.  Well for twelve days we hung on there in a position, the Tommies had been driven out of about seven or eight times, in the face of what was I suppose the severest shell fire ever troops were subjected to.  Casualties were very heavy and things looked very black for us, so we got out.  We got out in front though (August 4th) and took two more lines of trenches, capturing the ridge in front and Fritz's main system and second line defences.  This forced him to withdraw his guns and things got a bit easier.  The following night we were relieved by the 4th Division.  It was a great strain, but the excitement kept us going and it was an experience I'm glad to have gone through with no pretence at sleep for the twelve days and nights we were just about all in, and with a March of eight miles back to Warloy Baillon where we billited, and could have slept for a week.  General Birdwood received us on our way back and expressed great appreciation for what we had done.  If ever these Australians had a reputation over Gallipoli, they're got one now, which will take some living up to.  Another two days March ing brought us to Pernois where we were to spell.  Here we got reinforcements &ndash; we wanted them &ndash; and me having a stripe had to spend my rest training them &ndash; such is fame.  We got a new rig out here and a bath and we're new made again.  This place was near the City of Amiens and a lot of the boys took French leave and went in one Sunday .  I thought I could spend the day better making up arrears in sleep so didn't go.  Was rather sorry afterwards as they had a good time.  On the 15th we left on our way up to the line again and by the 20th August were at it hot and strong.  We found the position slightly altered this time.  No trenches to speak of and my gun was in No Man's Land.  Had nothing to do this time but hang on, in fact I never fired a shot.  Only in for six days, but it was raining like blazes the whole time and we were laying in mud and slush.  Fritz had found our range too and was making things very lively, so we were jolly pleased when the relief</p>
