Digger's Conscience Pricks Him!
"Souveniring" or "ratting" German prisoners of war was one of the minor pastimes of the Diggers during the 1914-'18 trouble.
Some Diggers were more keen on it than others. The "Souvenir Kings" stopped at nothing. There is on record the case of the Digger who souvenired a motor cycle, which he dismantled and brought back. When he landed at the wharf at Sydney he reassembled it and pushed it off to his home.
There is no record of a German aeroplane or motor wagon having been brought home, but that was mainly because of lack of opportunity.
Many a good Bosch magneto was detached from a plane and taken away. Wonderful what a handy tool the bayonet proved itself to be ? from use as a toasting fork to felling trees.
Nearly every Digger who was in France and Belgium brought back "souvenirs" of some kind. Field glasses, revolvers, watches, and Iron Crosses were the favorites in the field.
Photographs from German wallets are to be found to this day in many a Digger home.
But the Digger of to-day is looking back on the impetuosity of his youth and finding therein food for thought. As he turns over his "souvenirs" in the presence of the kids, he finds it rather difficult to explain to them how he came by the more or less intimate family photographs of a lot of Frauen and Frauleins. And of what use are they to him, anyway?
So begins the great movement back to Germany of the photographs and post cards "ratted" sixteen, seventeen, and eighteen years ago.
It is difficult to gauge whether the change is due to that "conscience which doth make cowards of us all," or whether it is prompted by a kindlier feeling, after the lapse of time, towards our ex-enemies.
If it grows to the extent which it promises, "Smith's Weekly" will have to decline the honor of establishing the bureau through which the "Souvs" are returned to their original owners.
That, after all, is a governmental duty. The Government sent the Diggers over there and it was at the Government's behest that the boys captured the prisoners. It is not suggested for one minute that the Government instructed the boys to "rat" the prisoners; but, if it did not want the prisoners "ratted", it was up to the Government to prevent it.
Here is a letter received by "Smith's" which shows how seriously some of the Diggers are now taking their citizenship:
Maxwelton Farm,
Coolgarra.
Editor,
"Smith's Weekly",
Sydney.
Dear Sir,
Some time back I read an interesting article in your paper of a Digger who sent some photographs back to a German soldier.
During our advance on the St. Quentin Canal I took a prisoner, and nothing would suit me better than take his photos and pay book as souvenirs.
But as years roll on a person stops to think that the owner of those photos would appreciate them all the more now, so I am enclosing them so as you can send them along to their owner.
I do not understand German or else I would send them on myself.
There was writing on most of the cards but it has disappeared for the past two years.
I am sure that the German soldier would quite understand that all person would never think about doing under any other circumstances.
If you are successful in getting the photos to the owner and he acknowledges same, you can use the story as I will read it in your paper.
Hoping and trusting that this will meet with your support.
I am,
Yours Faithfully
L. Armagnacq.
P.S.: Military address was: 4334 Pte. L. Armagnacq, 8th Brigade, A.I.F.
The pay book and photographs property of Heinrich Ferdinand Jung, who, in civil life, was a butcher in Frankfort on Main.
His rank in the German Army was that of a sergeant and he wore in his tunic the ribbon of the Iron Cross.
Some of the photographs are badly faded; but there is a rollicking group taken round a case labelled "Schultheiss Bier", while off at the side of the picture a man may be seen rolling a barrel of what may reasonably be presumed to be beer from out the door of a cellar. In the centre of the group is a fir tree, at the base of which are beer bottles, and in the foreground are two baskets filled with what also looks like bottles of beer. So it seems that Father Christmas had visited the Sergeants? Mess of Sergeant Jung's regiment.
The other photographs are family groups and a couple of what we presume to be Sergeant Jung himself, one of which is herewith reproduced.

According to his pay book, Jung was born in 1884, so that he is fifty years of age now.
In an endeavor to trace him, "Smith's" has addressed a letter in German to the police at Frankfort, of which the following is a translation:-
Officer in Charge,
Police Department,
Frankfort on Main,
Germany.
Dear Sir,
We are enclosing the following documents: One soldier's paybook, seven photographs, and one copy of "Smith's Weekly".
From the article in "Smith's Weekly" you will find the explanation of our possession of the papers.
Will you be good enough to inquire for Mr. Jung's present address and forward the documents.
With best thanks,
Yours faithfully.
If and when we get any result from this communication, we shall be pleased to pass it along for the benefit of Mr. Armagnacq and .