
moment, to see it come tumbling down. The strain on our nerves was severe, we were all sure that we would neve leave the place alive. The front Line was about 700 yards from our home & I believe that Fritz gained 120 yards back, but shortly after he was driven back again. Our infantry must have had a a hellish time. I thought at first that we would all be captured. The shelling was so heavy that it was an impossibility to get at the wounded. About 4:30 a.m. on the 1st Oct. a big explosion occurred just outside the "Pill Box" & thick vapour or smoke or gas came pouring in the dugout,  it was exceptionally strong & we all donned our gas helmets, I had mine on for two hours,  jolly nearly stifled when I took it off. Still the shelling continued & unfortunately the relief could not reach us. It was a terrible suspense waiting to be relieved:  about 8 o'clock one of the squads took a stretcher case to the next Relay Post & I can assure you that my prayers went with them. If any man prayed earnestly to the Almighty God we did on this awful day. I not only prayed for myself but for all those in the place & for my loves ones at home. About 12 o'clock (mid-day) word came through that the relief was at hand & I can assure you that it did not take us long to get a move out of the devilish place. We had to find the track the best way we could as it was blown to pieces,  we ran like mad,  machine bullets were whistling past us & shells enough said,  eventually we arrived at the tunnel again took shelter & rested for a while,  I was completely done up. After a rest we were much better so we pushed on & managed to obtain a lift to the dressing station & obtained a good hot drink. George Simister, Jim Powel, E. Dodson, Charles Whittaker & Sgt. Morris went on by motor ambulance to our headquarters,  they were all crook with the gas. Fred Wiggins & I jumped into a lorry & eventually arrived at our headquarters at 3:20 p.m. I looked a terrible wreck, no wash or shave for 10 days. The majority of the other squads of the 3 sections were relieved the night before,  we were certainly must unfortunate being the last to be relieved. It was a most trying ordeal, worse than any other that I have experienced since being in France. Only the fellows who were present can realize what it was like. We all thank God with all our hearts that we came through the ordeal safely. (We are also very much obliged to Fritz for his "Pill Box" for shelter.)