Sunday 11
 Morning service at St Pauls. In the afternoon visit Richmond on the Thames but it is wet. There are many cosy tea rooms on Richmond Hill, Cottage Teas etc.
Monday 12
 This morning to Tower Tower Bridge have a good look round. After, Law Courts in Strand hear Lord Chief Justice on a treason case. Hyde Park, Oxford St Rotten Row The Serpentine this afternoon. "High Jinks" at Adelphe this evening after a walk round Picadilly Circus way. Still dream in tea rooms, cafes with music busy streets.
Tuesday 13
 From Waterloo to Hampton Court, a fine run on electric train through beautiful suburbs' in Surrey. Hampton Court Palace grounds are magnificent. Lunch at the Greyhound Hotel. Return to London via Twickenham, Teddington Richmond visit "Vanity Fair" a revue at the Palace during the evening. Meet Miss  of Wimbledon have tea with her.
Wednesday 14
 A walk round London, Whitehall, Strand, Picadilly, Regent St, Oxford Street, Hyde Park, Rotten Row Marble Arch. Lunch, dinner theatre "High Jinks" with Miss Stammer. News of the fall of Bagdad.
Thursday 15
 Another walk round, Pall Mall, St James Palace, Buckingham Palace the residential quarters at W. See the changing of the guard at the latter Palace.
 H.M. Theatre "Chu Chin Chow" in evening. News of successfull British work on Ancre comes through daily. Still marvel at tubes traffic.
Friday 16
 Visit Brighton (Sussex) Hove have a good look round. Hove is especially fine with broad streets avenues. Fine water port. Hotels are particularly sumptuous.
 Theatre in evening "Bric-a-Brac" with friend a walk along the front later. Arrive in London at 1 am after much searching find a taxi to take me home. Journey 2 hours almost. Fine day.
Saturday 17
 Shopping in morning. Richmond again this afternoon and get a fine panoramic view of river country from the hill. Met friend in afternoon go to Hammersmith to picture palace. My dream is nearing an end on Monday return to France. News of the taking of Baupume Russian Revolution.