 [Page 68] 
 Sunday 8th Stables as ordinarily first thing &amp; church parade in a picture theatre at 9 a.m. Wrote letters for the rest of the morning &amp; afternoon with time off to "feed up" at stables at 11 am &amp; 4 p.m. Immediately after tea went with Pynor &amp; Nichol to Amesbury Wesleyan Church conducted by a couple of Aust. Chaplains. Had a very enjoyable service &amp; a good chat on the way. 
 Monday 9th Stables again &amp; started another line Put in a very good bit of work &ndash; completing about 3 p.m. after putting up an excellent line. We had a bit of lunch at the usual time but had hot dinner on return 
 Tuesday 10th Reeled up a little line and had but a easy time. Writing in evening. 
 Wednes. 11th Out early with wagon to Greenlands farm and laid lines having  dinner  lunch out there &amp; returning to camp in time for late dinner. Tried to get into concert at YM but it was too crowded 
 Thursday 12th Detailed to Day Stables &amp; spent whole day attending to horses &amp; stables. 
 Friday 13th Up at 5.30, breakfast at 6 pm left camp on wagons about 7-15 am for Greenlands farm.  Layed  Laid line about the camp  until about 3 pm  lunch being had at usual time. About 3.30 we were sent out to reel up a line and found it about 3 &frac12; miles 
 [Note &ndash; Pages a6588069 to a6588090 are out of order. Pages have been transcribed in the correct order without inserting page numbering] 
 After that we had to put down a line to a dug out which we could not find. After much kicking out we finished in darkness &amp; arrived back at  camp  HQ to water horses and then partake of an excellent stew cooked on an open fire. The HQ was in a cump of trees and we had very little low tents to take 5 men. Guns &amp; observation stns were all over the country &amp; we had to provide communication. 
 Aeroplanes were scouting &amp; passing by the office dropped messages evidently the result of their scouting. The planes flew very low to droup the messages which we attached to a stream of red, yellow &amp; blue cloth acting as a tail. 
 The artillery commenced about 8 pm. firing but little, star shells illuminated the country &amp; the infantry were active in the trenches. We were inactive having a good sleep in our little tents 
 Saturday 14th Up at 5.30 p.m., watered horses &amp; washed at pump in the farm near by. Breakfasted &amp; away reeling up lines all over the place until about 1 pm then returned to our camp arriving home about 2.15 p.m. 
 Had a feed then took our ease and cleaned up a bit. Enjoyed our little scheme &amp; did real hard work 
 Sunday 15th Stables as usual and then church parade at the Pioneers Camp. Writing and walking in afternoon Went to Amesbury Church in evening but Rev. Holden was unavoidably absent. Had good time as usual 
 Monday 16th Stables. Referendum day. All chaps under 21 were falled out &amp; we relieved fellows over 21 who were on duty. In afternoon we were to go for inoculation but before my turn came the vaccine had run out. Later rifles were issued to us for what purpose I know not. The rifles are the long Lee Enfields. Very cold day and bright 
 Tuesday 17th Innoculated with second dose of para typhoid in morning. Afternoon harness was issued &amp; cleaned. Evening horse picket shift 12 &ndash; 3. 
 Wed 18 Harness checked &amp; defeciencies supplied All mounted numbers have a full issue of saddlery etc. Paid &pound;1 &amp; colors issued in evening Pay books were handed in for audit in London. 
 Thursday 19th Mail of 8 letters arrived and a good time provided in reading same. Cleaning harness in morning &amp; transferring stores from hut to hut in afternoon. Writing letters at express speed in evening 
 Friday 20th Day stableman today &amp; stuck on stables all day. The weather is very cold here though fine and at night we generally do a freeze. Stables first thing which was a sort of curse is now a blessing as going about &frac34; m. &amp; working vigorously at grooming knocks the early morning coldness right out of one. Naturally we are getting a little shrewder and will soon make up a bed warm enough for this sharp climate. 
 Saturday 21st Stables again same every day. Second parade I paraded sick and had my toe inspected. Doing famously. After medical I had my teeth seen to. One was filled &amp; others are to be done on Monday. Afternoon attended to harness &amp; in evening walked to Amesbury with Nick. 
 Sunday 22nd Stables first then church parade with some chaps in Y.M.C.A. Those who wished to attended a church other than the C &amp; E. and  we  I fell out. Arrived just in time for sermon in YMCA 
 After church washed my everyday breeches and wrote. Afternoon writing and in evening went to Amesbury Church though it was raining. Had supper in the S.S. after church &amp; walked  backed  back again &amp; went straight to stables to do horse picket. Rather tired. 
 Monday 23rd My shift was 12 to 3 and during that time cleaned harness etc In  day &amp;  morning fell out for dental treatment but had nothing done. Afternoon one tooth was prepared for filling tomorrow. Writing to catch mail tonight. 
 Tuesday 24th My detachment went out to West Amesbury running a line &amp; as I had an appointment for dentist I stayed behind and did practically nothing but cleaning up clothing &amp; resting. Waited nearly all afternoon for filling, got done &amp; have to return to dentist for polishing any day. Bed early. 
 Wednesday 25th  Done  Cleaning harness etc in morning. Inspection of horses up till about 1 p.m. Afternoon cleaning harness. Evening advised receiving leave on Friday. 
 Tuesday 26th On harness again in morning. In afternoon paid only those going on leave being so treated. Later on spent time on harness but managed a little cleaning up. 
 After dismissal cleaned up ready to leave in morning but was advised that I had to clear off tonight as now railway accommodation was available in the morning. Soon collected my [traps?] but as too late to catch a car to Salisbury &amp; so connect with a fast train to London. I had to walk to Amesbury caught train about 8-35 and after another sleepy trip reached London after 1 a.m. 
 A mail of 4 letters from Aust. 1 from Gravesend &amp; 1 from Miss Wyatt arrived at midday. 
 Friday 27th Arrived Waterloo at 1 a.m. and was met by a Y.M.C.A. man who asked us where we wanted to go. I only wanted to go to bed so they soon packed me in a motor car and drove me to the "Victoria League" where I got a room &amp; bed for 1/-. The Y.M.C.A. car was driven by a lady &amp; was just the thing after putting in such a dreary trip. 
 Had a lovely sleep in nice sheets and was up at 9 a.m. Breakfasted &amp; went to see Harold &amp; arranged to meet him at his place at 9-30 a.m. on Sunday and in the meantime I managed for myself. 
 Returned home to Victoria League, it was raining and rang up Miss Wyatt &amp; arranged to meet her at Piccadilly Tube at 2 p.m. Spent a pleasant hour reading before a fire in the billiard room, had dinner at Tottenham Court YMCA &amp; went off to Piccadilly. I was to recognise her by her extreme tallness, a black hat &amp; coat. My disguise was the uniform with elliptical purple patches on my arm. 
 Met all right &amp; she marched me off to Corner House for tea. This is a fine place one of Lyon's best places and pretty good too. After that we chased about for some numerals "A" which the fellows who were in the first three landings at Gallipolli wear. Though we tried military taylors in the Strand &amp; all over the place we were unsuccessful Miss Wyatt then showed me the Strand Palace a rather fashionable hotel. 
 Later on we visited Regent House and another one of Lyons establishments These places are just wonderful the fittings being A1 At tea time these places are very crowded and the inevitable que is formed. There is splendid orchestral music at these places and we spent a rather long time in Lyon's place chatting to an Australian soldier friend of Miss Wyatt, his sister, Miss Wyatt. During the afternoon when I was with Miss Wyatt I met a few theatre people including a Jimmie Learmouth who draws &pound;100 a week as a comic. Miss Wyatt has something to do with the stage where evidently she met these people. 
 After tea we said goodbye to the others &amp; visited the Palladium a wonderful sized theatre. Miss Wyatt just produced her card and two tickets were forthcoming. Good seats too and had a good view of everything. The show was not too bad, not startling  rather too  and was over a little after 9. They run three shows a day at this place 2.30, 6.10 &amp; 9.30 p.m. 
 After coming out I said goodbye to Miss Wyatt, thanked her and went to Shakespear Hut to see if I could get accommodation there but found place full. Returned to Victoria League where I had left my gear and went to Aldwich Hut which was also full. So went to the "Little Theatre" YM and got a bed there. 
 The chap fixing up the tickets seemed to catch on to my name rather easily &amp; he said he knew people in London of my name. He said one chap was a Lieut in London Scottish and another was in Salonika A lady whose nee name was Liebert often visited the place and the chap was to speak to the lady about me &amp; I was to call back on Sunday to hear of any results. 
 Saturday 28th Up at 7 am, had breakfast, looked about for somewhere to go at night and caught 9.20 train from Waterloo for Hampton Court. Had a little walk along the Thames and then went into Hampton Court. This is a fine old palace built for royalty about 1700 and is noted for its fine gardens &amp; grounds. The historic grape vine &amp; the maze are the more famous items of interest in the grounds. The photos which I posted show some of the best points. 
 I left the Court called into a shop to buy the cards &amp; talking the man told me the quickest way to get to the football match was by changing at Clapham Junc. Changed as advised and had dinner at a restaurant while waiting for the train. Though this is a rather poor quarter I got a real good dinner. It was in this place that a girl scout told me that my chin strap was twisted. Just a young little girl who had her chin strap carefully straight and who seemed to take great interest in her appearance. This rather amused me. 
 Caught a train to West Bromfield which was supposed to be near the Queens Club Ground. Had to walk a mile or so and arrived at the ground all right. A  pre  match between some of the Headquarters Sections was being played when I arrived and at 3 pm the match commenced. The match was pretty good and the 3rd Div. won after a fairly exciting match by about 2 goals over the other Training units in England. There was not much keen barracking though the match was close. A fairly good attendance was present but I did not meet anybody other than our own Coy. 
 I went back to London in the tube &amp; suddenly found that Bill Mason was sitting next but one to me. He has a mo now and is improving well. He is in a convalescent home in Dartford near Gravesend and managed to get leave to see the match. 
 I hurriedly had tea and a clean up at Tottenham Court YMCA and rushed off to the Wieminister Wesleyan Hall to a concert. Doors opened at 6.15 &amp; I was there in the que when they opened &amp; got a good seat for a 1/- &amp; 2 tax. I was sitting next to a lady with whom I soon got into conversation. I soon found that she was a great hospital worker &amp; told me that she was adopting an Australian soldier who has been badly wounded. This chap comes from Brunswick. I did not know him. 
 The concert was very fine and I am sending the program home. I soon got home to the Shakespear Hut where I had booked a seat early in the morning and was soon a bed leaving advice that I wished to be called at 7 a.m. next morning 
 Sunday 29th Up a 7 a.m. cleaned up &amp; breakfast &ndash; and took things easy. Booked bed  &amp; left  which took some time and had to leave in a hurry without leaving my coat. Buses were very scarce so I was a little delayed. 
 Harold was all ready for me and we ran to the tube Stn (Victoria) and went to St Pauls via Blackfriars. Got a seat just in time many people having to stand. The crowd was very large but the service disappointing &amp; dreary altogether. It was over at last after enduring watching  poor  women standing up. It was hard enough for me standing during the chanting but the people standing could not have enjoyed themselves much. 
 Had lovely dinner at Harolds place and went out for a walk. By the way Harolds landlady Miss Cory, Rolf Jansen &amp; a few other chaps went together to St Pauls meeting them at Victoria Tube. Had a good bus ride to Regents Park there being 6 Australians together. Walked about the park squirrels being very plentiful &amp; tame. Even sparrows feed out of the hand of people. A woman was speaking out there on a wagon with a sign up "We want Hughes here &amp; now" We listened there and returned home to tea. 
 After tea we went to Congregational Church where a decent service was attended. The preacher is rather famous. Rev  Morgan  Campbell Morgan and I enjoyed the service very well. Returned from church had a chat &amp; supper &amp; returned to Shakespear Hut after having a real good day 
 Monday 30th Out fairly early amid rain and caught bus for Woolwich taking about 1 hr 22 min to arrive there. The barracks were some little distance from the bus &amp; after some trouble found the [indecipherable] 
 P.T.O. 
 [Text on back of page] This is the last of the two writing tablets which I brought away with me from home. Luckily I got paper of the same size to act as reinforcements. 
 Adjutant but found I was too late to see anything much so returned to London enjoying the ride very much. The fare was but 5 &frac12; single and was very interesting. Enquired about train for the night at Waterloo, visited Army &amp; Navy Stores to buy some cards &amp; had dinner at the Australian H.Q. Institute. 
 After dinner went to the Coliseum &ndash; owing to rain and saw  one  the largest theatre in London. After tea walked about the streets returning to Shakespeare about 9 p.m.  to eat  packed up and arrived at Waterloo Stn in good time for the 10.5 pm special train for Amesbury arriving about 1 a.m. and walking home got to bed about 2 a.m. 
  Monday  This trip I had a good time as above accounts show. If this trip has done anything at all for me it has made me appreciate the Y.M.C.A. more. On my previous trip I stayed at a permanent Y.M.C.A., the Tottenham Court one, the National H.Q. This time I  am  did a sort of tour of the war-time places and am full of praise for them. Arriving at Waterloo at 1 am, being met by a motor and taken gratis to accommodation and making use of the refreshment arrangements at all hours of the night force one to greatly appreciate the work of these people mostly ladies. 
 Miss Wyatt was very kind and greatly helped to make my time enjoyable. 
 London is a fine place and though trips to Scotland or Wales would have perhaps been more enjoyable &amp; educational I have a good time 
 Tuesday 31st Up again &amp; at stables 6 am and had rather a rude awakening that work was commencing again. Went our with wagon as a mounted number to Upper Woodford a rather pretty place past Amesbury. Had a fine time, the day being fine and everything going well. I was No. 7 and had plenty of work. We finished laying had dinner on road &amp; then returned home 
 Writing at night 
 Wednesday 1st Nov. Raining heavily. In the morning I was shovelling mud away from the stables and in afternoon I got a washing parade &amp; so avoided the dirty muddy work. Evening writing 
 Thursday 1st Nov. Raining heavily. In the morning I was shovelling mud away from the stables and in afternoon I got a washing parade &amp; so avoided the dirty muddy work. Evening writing 
 Thursday 2nd Out on a scheme again and had to prepare two horses as usual. The artillery signallers were using our wagon for experience &amp; our Sergt, another fellow &amp; myself went out to help them. Had a pretty good time &amp; ride, got my saddlery covered in mud. Returned home fairly early and cleaned harness. Writing again. 
 Friday 3rd Cleaned my duty harness &amp; saddled a horse &amp; took it to Divisional H.Q. for an officer. Afternoon I was brakesman on a forage wagon in pelting rain and used all the afternoon up waiting. Writing 
 Saturday 4th Raining badly again. Very miserable weather now. 
 Completed harness early &amp; had a rest considering that we  were  are going out tomorrow Sunday. Went to Rollestone Camp 3 miles with Vin Healy to see Claud. Batchford who leaves for France 3 am. Very wet &amp; sore on returning in storm 
 Sunday 5th Raining and strong gale blowing 
 Morning was taken easy and about 11 a.m. went to stables, saddled up ready to leave after dinner. Early dinner and then off to the "Bustard" Inn about 4 miles away and laid lines until about 7 p.m. It rained &amp; blowed for most of the time and I got wet through and my thighs downwards. 
 It was great fun preparing for this "stunt". Some fellows have got south-westers, waterproof helmets, coats, caps of all descriptions. I wore over my tunic the leather jackets, then my overcoat, &amp; then a waterproof sheet. During the afternoon the waterproof came off and that caused my overcoat to get wet. It was a most boisterous day and we worked right up into darkness, thought we lost our way home and had tea about 8 p.m. 
 The work is more or less enjoyable but it is not too pleasant in bad weather. Anyway we survived everything joyfully &amp; turned into bed with the advice that we were going out again. Would it be wet or fine? 
 Monday 6th Up sharp on revielle as usual, stables again, breakfast and straight off out on scheme. Fine day but weather resisting equipment taken as yesterday. 
 We were supposed to return for dinner, but as is usual did not get back until about 2-30 p.m. Laid lines etc all the morning but it was fine and I greatly enjoyed the riding about. My mare this time was jolly fine and I could enjoy greatly tearing about on it. Of course on return you have to unsaddle, water &amp; feed your horse &amp; then clean, feed yourself afterwards. Had a good snack off bread &amp; jam finishing about 4 p.m. 
 Had my kit inspection active service clothes being checked. I am in for new articles as follows hat, 2 shirts, 1 pr socks. Tonight I got my second pair of underpants which fills a long felt want.  We were  Told just now that we leave here on work at 6.30 a.m., breakfast at 6 a.m. 
 We are working like niggers now and when we have a little spare time we are trying to dry our clothes etc. Anyway we are doing well and tomorrow we will do a little more. 
 Tuesday 7th Called up about 5.30 a.m. washed &amp; had breakfast early. Horses were brought up from stables &amp; we moved off very early and arrived at the scheme well in time to complete a line before the artillery commenced action. 
 The artillery completed their operations about noon and then we reeled up the lines on which we had expended our energies on Sunday Monday &amp; earlier this morning. 
 Aeroplanes were competing against us for delivery messages but one came to grief descending and we beat them easily. The aviator was not hurt much just stunned and I was unlucky enough to be engaged when the actual fall occured. There was a huge crowd of officers from a General down to Lieuts looking about to see how things were worked and I think the cables were very respectable. The batteries of artillery stationed about the country were firing and things were quite warlike while it lasted. 
 We laid double lines and had difficulty in reeling up so could not finish before darkness compelled us to desist. I had a pretty good time though &ndash; my mare was rather lively and tired out we were all glad to get home &amp; had hot tea. The chaps who were out today got  their  a rum issue tonight but a good few of us did not accept it. Things have taken an active service appearance. 
 It was fairly fine today though intermittent showers compelled us to wear overcoat &amp; waterproof. Writing until late in evening. 
 Wednesday 8th Out again to complete clearing up lines out at the scheme. We did not leave until 9 a.m. so we were not so bustled as the last couple of days. 
 Reeled up cable which was not so badly twisted as yesterday Finished a little after 1 p.m. and got home in time to see the other chaps falling in for afternoon parade. Saw to other horses and then had dinner about 3 p.m. Coming home I was centre driver in the 6 horse team and got on all right. 
 Had a comparative rest in the remainder of afternoon by washing about &frac12; doz pairs of socks which have been wet through during the last few days wet weather. Writing again in evening. 
 Thursday 9th Out with cable wagon again laying a practice line from Amesbury past Stonehenge. A General inspected us during our dinner time &amp;  evidently was satisfied. Reeled in line and arrived back on camp about 4 p.m. very tired. 
 Friday 10th Hard at work with cable wagon once more. Called up at 5 a.m., had breakfast immediately, saddled horses etc and moved off with wagon. Commenced work at Amesbury and laid line mainly along Avon Valley to a pretty high hill. 
 During the morning I had to return to the base to test our line owing to the operator not being able to keep up communication. We had nearly finished the line when I was ordered to go back for the rations. I had to go back about 3 miles for the rations and the poor horse was rather fatigued and could not raise anything faster than a jog trot. 
 I got the rations and stowed &frac12; loaf of bread, a lump a butter tea &amp; sugar, golden syrup about my pockets etc and had 3 loaves in a bag. I hastily had my lunch on my return &amp; had to set out to prepare the line for reeling up. We did the line, a rather long &amp; difficult, one, in very good time and are now very tired. Of course on return the horse gets first attention and it quite appreciated its well earned rest &amp; feed. I did the same later on but my rest was but short-lived as I had to get on to harness cleaning doing my stirrup irons in evening. 
 The famous Salisbury Plains are not much of plains in the river valleys where the sides of the valley are very steep in places. The places are very beautiful about where we were &amp; the river was somewhat in flood. The rich coloured autumn leaves simply turned one hill golden and riding along  between  a little track between the trees was just great. There is no doubt but that the Avon valley is very pretty. 
 Saturday 11th Not so much rush first thing this morning but once down at stables after 9 am parade I got busy cleaning dirtied harness. 
 About 10 a.m. we were ordered to pack saddles, put them in wagon and march to Bulford Camp 3 miles for 68 horses. I managed a ride on the wagon luckily On arrival at Bulford we got the horses saddled one each &amp; lead the rest. I had 3 to lead and managed well arriving home about 2-30 p.m. We were immediately relieved for dinner (bread &amp; dripping) and then returned to stables for allotment of horses. 
 I nearly lost my good old mare. The officers of course had first pick &amp; one of them picked her. Our sergeant however chipped in &amp; said it was a trained horse and so I was left with it. The only training it has received has been from my hands I think and I was just telling him how much it had improved the last few days. Anyway the sergt of 1A stole a march from our sergt and nearly got all the best horses. There was great rivalry and now we 1B had a stable to ourselves so the chaps are shaking down well together. 
 We had to fix up our stable then bed &amp; feed our nags finishing about 6 p.m. in the dark. Though beaten in getting the best horses we reckon we will get equal, gave three cheers for our stable and cleared off to tea and were cheered up more by receiving Australian mail. One from Bert, Rudolph &amp; [Dais?] while the Lion arrived at dinner time. 
 Everybody is feeling in great spirits tonight. Plenty hard work is coming our way now and the last 7 days have been full of hard work, tired nights and as a result good solid sleep. 
 Sunday 12th At work same as on week days except that we went back to stables immediately after breakfast instead of waiting until fall in at 9 a.m. Cleaned harness &amp; worked jolly hard until dinner time. All this work is necessary to get ready for full marching order march out on Monday. 
 The whole division is to march out as if it were leaving the camp absolutely &amp; this afternoon we are to have a very necessary rehearsal &ndash; After dinner we went down to stables again this time in full marching order, water bottles, haversack, bandolier &amp; rifle. Fixed things up, saddled horse and was ready for inspection at 4 p.m. Then returned watered fed &amp; bedded down and got away in hurry in order to be in time for church. 
 Rushed back to camp (3/4 m. from stables) hurried tea down &amp; found I was too late for church Stayed behind &amp; wrote letters at the [C or E?] Institute. A short service was held while I was there and writing was then suspended. 
 Monday 13th Revielle at 4.45 a.m. and down at stables at 5 a.m. Up again for breakfast at 6 am and on parade with horses and full marching order at 6.45 a.m. 
 Moved off after waiting about and were practically the head of a procession 13 miles long. All our company were mounted either on wagons, horses or bikes. There was a heavy mist until about 9 a.m. and after that the day was lovely. 
 We marched through Amesbury Winterbourne Stoke and Shrewton doing a big semi circle arriving at the camp at the opposite end to which we left it. The total length must have been about 13 or 14 miles and I was rather tired after it. 
 Of course rushing around like a maniac to get ready in time accounts for a great portion of our tiredness and carrying a rifle slung over your shoulder with a horse jogging underneath you makes your shoulder saw. 
 I think the march went off well and we arrived back at camp about 1.30 p.m. and set to cleaning our  house  horses saddlery &amp; stables. Knocked off a little early and had a very much required hot tea. Wrote letters. 
 Tuesday 14th Detailed for day stables and knocked about stables all day. Writing at night. 
 Wednesday 15th Branding horses all day on the hind hoofs. Rather easy job for me as I was for most of the time keeping note of the number of horses. Paid &pound;1 at night and all kit not for active service handed in. 
 Tuesday 16th Branded another horse which arrived yesterday &amp; cleaned harness in morning. In afternoon we had a parade with all teams &amp; horses harnessed. Very cold day and leather jacket used to prevent coldness. On night picket working  12.20  11.40 to 1-40 and getting  up  feed bags etc ready for early commencement of a scheme tomorrow. 
 Friday 17th Up at 4.30 am fed saddled horse which I rode up to camp had breakfast togged up a bit and left camp for scheme about 6.45 a.m. 
 It was extremely cold today and found scarf, leather jacket, and gloves very useful. A strong wind was blowing and made your nose &amp; ears tingle. Anyway we made a good trip to Winterbourne Stoke and after a drink of tea to Berwick St James which is a very nice village. We were to supply a line from 11 Bde to Div H.Q. &amp; the exact location of the former was unknown. 
 I was left with a drum of cable &amp; barrow to run line to the exact office and the wagon set out for Div. H.Q. After a long wait it was found that the Bde was to be about 1 1/2 miles away so I waited for the wagon to return when we ran the line. Had a long rest and then I had to return to Div. H.Q. for rations. 
 Div. H.Q. was at at place called Farnburgh Castle, which is but a series of mounds with deep gullies between. The offices were located sheltered in the gullies which were however draughty. The "Castle" is the remains of Roman Earthwork defences and was a pretty good place for the H.Q. 
 The country about there was very peculiar. Though seemingly flat there are huge hollows in the country and are quite capable of sheltering thousands of troops. On the top the wind was most furious &amp; cold while in the hollow or in the shelter of woods your face felt very hot. Anyway the day was very cold but the additional clothing was very protective. 
 We commenced to reel up and I freed the line right up to the H.Q. but the wagon went home  before I about half way through. I was left without orders but was told to return to camp by Lieut Ferguson a new officer who is taking great interest in the men's affairs and appears to be a decent fellow. I returned with him and had a good ride in darkness. On arrival  home  at stables we were told that 11 Bde H.Q. was burnt down &amp; all papers etc destroyed. 
 Coming up from stables I noticed light snow falling &amp;  later  a few ticks after it came down heavier. Walked up to camp &amp; got quite white and so experienced snow for the first time. I thought the cold was severe and the appearance of snow confirmed my opinion. 
 Saturday 18th Revielle at 7 a.m. having an extra hour in bed for a change. No snow was lying on the ground so evidently the fall could not have been heavy. 
 We had to reel up line which we could not get in yesterday but as I had finished clearing the line there was no work for No. 7 so I went  had  out as No. 3. The wagon was unloaded as far as possible and there were only 2 men aboard. We made a very fast trip out to the place and reeled up the line about 2 miles in rapid time. There were 7 miles to ride before we started and it was as usual very cold. We reeled in in a snow storm and of course the snow flew about. At one place the line was 
 left in water overnight and the water had frozen over the cable. The ice was so strong that one chap had to dismount &amp; break the ice before we could reel in. 
 We got back to camp about three and had lunch of bread &amp; jam. It has been lightly snowing on &amp; off all day and now tonight the ground is covered with it. At the Castle this morning the ground was white while here in camp it  does  was not showing  at all  much 
 We are getting used to cold now but still are glad we are not fighting the Eskimos or Greenlanders. Washed clothes in evening. 
 Sunday 19th Back to the 6 a.m. revielle and at work as usual. I was detailed for day stables and returned there immediately after breakfast and prepared horses for inspection. Cleaned up harness for inspection tomorrow. 
 The snow fell heavily last night &amp; this morning everything was covered. White practically as far as the eye could reach. It was not as cold as yesterday but unpleasant to be in when the snow got down your neck. A thaw set in during afternoon &amp; everything is now dripping. There was a little snow balling snow-man building done but I was too busy. 
 Got off stables at 3 p.m. and cleaned up for church. Ernie Pynor had to attend a lecture but we waited until about 4.30 p.m. when we left having tea at the Y.M.C.A. We (Nick &amp; I) arrived in good time and just as the service proper had commenced Ernie arrived. After the service the sacrament was administered and as a final Sunday in England the service was extremely fitting and edifying. It was rather late before everything was over and I can look back on last Sunday night as one of the most inspiring impressive  I have  
 Monday 20th Inspection first thing after 9 am. parade but though we went to the trouble  