see the burst of the shell on the plain beneath, then quite eight or ten seconds after, would hear the report of the gun, then the whistle of the shell, and finally the explosion.
A few of the Royal Welsh Fusiliers came in last night as a result of one of his shots. One poor fellow was terribly shattered. Hardly a portion of him escaped injury. The Welsh Padre and a burial party came over this morning and buried him on a grassy slope just near our Camp. "Blessed are the dead" the Padre said "for they rest from their labours". Rest from the turmoil of war, in this quiet green valley, with the pale blue everlastings and innumerable wild flowers bending their tender stalks over his grave. So, another of the many hero sleeps, and when the death-song of the big guns rolls on further, no grave could be quieter or more peaceful.
To-day, Easter Sunday, the fighting still continues. The Turks are holding on tenaciously to the line of hills in front, and so far has showed no disposition to move. The individual Turk is game enough, too. The night before last, a Sergeant of ours was brought in, shot by a sniper. He said he was crawling up to get a shot when he sighted a big Turk on the hill above him, fairly close. He took aim and fired. The Turk only stood up in full view and signalled a "wash out", that is no hit. Then, as the Sergeant raised himself a little for another shot, Johnny fired. The bullet went through the Sergeant's hand, and into his leg. Twice after that the Turkish sniper fired, one bullet grazing one man's neck, and the other his right temple.
3rd April Exciting events!
Just before midnight on the 1st April, we left our Camp in the Wadi across the Jordan and returned to our first camp over the river, where we were bombed on the 28th. Only our limber and the unmounted personnel with the Camels moved then, the others were to follow the next day.
We reached camp between 1 A.M. 2 A.M. on the morning of the 2nd and turned in. We were looking forward to sleeping a little later than usual, but the Turk decided otherwise. Twelve planes came over very early, and though only three bombs were dropped