Wednesday Dec 22nd Accordingly to the Telegraph Mr Asquith has stated in the house that all troops have evacuated Anzac Suvla Bay with insignificant loss. Where they have gone to we know not but we are naturally interested bewildered at the news after Australians have lost so heavily. Greece is practically now in with us.
Thursday Dec 23rd All day we were busy designing decorating our ward every ward is being done and there is keen rivalry between them, ours is easily the best in G Block it is one mass of coloured paper chains Chinese lanterns the walls are our feature we have an Aust Coat of Arms over an Aust flag I made on black paper and with cotton wool a large map of Aust and in it the words a Merry X to all those at home. At night we had some great revelry nearly every bed was tipped up we laughed till our sides ached another chap I gave some Amateur Theatricals of the Prodigal son the laughter brought in a lot of other sisters to see the cause of the disturbance. Our night sister is a real sport and gives us a lot of privileges. We lost our doctor to-day.
Friday Dec 24th Xmas Eve. Who will forget Xmas Eve in Malta, we were busy all day completing the decoration of our ward, I designed four blankets with cotton wool and they are the admiration of all, the blankets were hung on the wall and in coloured wools we worked mottoes a hospital ship etc. Our ward is I think easily the best and if not the prettiest the most original. At night time there was great revelry and at lights out all the day sisters came to the various wards and sang Xmas Carrols. They had three violins and they looked very pretty, it was a fine moonlight night and we were all disinclined to go to bed.
Xmas Day. One of the happiest I have ever spent, in the morning we received a very nice present from the Aust Red Cross Soc. And then our ward was judged and awarded first prize. We were all delighted as their was very keen competition. We sat down to a nicely decorated table and after singing Grace we had a splendid dinner with Xmas Pudding as well, in the p.m. we went to various wards