Monday 21st Feb. About 12 am I was sitting in dressing station when I heard a shout "AMC at the Double. I rushed down to find that a poor chap named Le Mesaurier had shot himself through the heart I attended him before the Dr arrived and luckily got him away in an ambulance that happened to be handy. He was just alive before we sent him away. Poor chap admitted he did it himself, it was a heart breaking case of a brave man. This man was in my right on the Peninsular and although he wore glasses and was med. unfit he was one of the pluckiest men in the reg, he would go anywhere. Since he has been in Egypt he has been sent back from the reg as unfit and it hurt his pride so much that he ended his worry. He was a DCM man too. In pm went for a ride my first for 10 months all around the various camps and I met a lot of old friends, evening Kursaal with .
Tuesday 22nd Feb. We had a meningitis case a few nights ago. Le Mesurier by some freak is still alive. The 12th ALH went away to-day. I will follow.
Wednesday 23rd Rec some stray mail, The 12th sent for me to-day and I went over but my transfer is not yet cleared but I hope to be temporarily attached. 
Thursday 24th Went over to Oasis to the 12th LH to make arrangements about my transfer. Town at night rec two letters from home.
Friday 25th The Dr at Oasis is very busy and no arrangements have been made yet so I went over and arranged with him to temporarily attach me pending my final transfer. Major Vernon released me and I came over here late at night.
Saturday 26th In morning did sick parade in a rough way with my new Dr Single the great cricketer he seems a very decent fellow, I was very busy in the morning and I rushed away in pm to races as I had made previous arrangements. I had a disastrous day as I lost PT. Boom ran third. Describe the 12th later.
Sunday 27th Did sick parade in morning and then chased around various camps and drug stores trying to obtain essentials. Everything is chaos as we are not settled and are at present in a bell tent and all my drugs are on the ground. I cannot even dispense my own medicines. Wrote for Lionel to join me as Dr has given consent for me to claim him as I am his guardian.