
December 9Les had taken his hat off - and his black long hair was over his forehead, he was like a Shannon drawing of W.B. Yeats.  "D'you know what you remind me of? - like some bloody orfan!"  So R. shewed his appreciation for the beauty of Les that day.
20.No afternoon parade, a dull grey misting afternoon, cold and sad.  Read Drinkwater's "Tides" and Squire's "Twelve Poems" & "The Poet and his Vision".  "Prose Papers' is a goodly and rich book of rare prose.  Before parade this morning read Keats, "I stood tiptoe upon a little hill" - a first reading of Keats for some while.
Mail:  John Hassals book of his correspondence course for 15.15.0, for a while seriously inclined towards taking it up but winter is no time for serious attempting of drawing and the fee is rather high for a pay of 40 F. fortnightly.
Wrote to Beautmont acknowledging receiving of "Tides" and asking again for list of Cuala, Vale and Moreland Press books.
Rumour is of our leaving here next Tuesday, Amentieres front relieving 5th and 3rd Divisions.
December 9, 1021.A full reading of "Chastelard" and I've been carrying it in my pack since Ecuire, all unknowing of its rich loveliness.  Tonight I discover Swinburne and I have read passionately beauty I've just come across, singing elation of loveliness.
December 1022.A march that took us to the close outskirts of Pont de Brique.  In the afternoon out with sketch book to the high hill overlooking Pont de Brique - where Harry D. and self spent a long afternoon last summer twelve months.  Waiting by the crossing, a train of Chinese labour passing up, each window of carriage and open doors of trucks framing crowding faces, faces of the east, of even yellow-walnut complexioning, wearing strange skull caps of close fitting brown, low over the forehead, and with long ear flaps, some wore the forehead piece turned back, and the ear pieces loose, revealing three tuft linings of a squirrel-like fur.
Mail:  T.L.S. Dec. 6, a barren dull paper.  Masefield's "The Old Front Line" publishing today.  Read Mary Beaton's scene with Chastelard.
A grey cold day.  Tonight the sharp bite of frost in the air, a clear deep night.
