
December 1226.A frost last night just sufficient to half dry hard the day's mud about the roadway.  A morning's fatigue, clearing from by the Dispensary tent a heap of straw, burnt from the R.O., later to a yarning of old stunts.
Now in the V.D. Tent - which Namby and Buckholz are away at Boulogne.  Frank D. has been sketching here, now leaves for tea.
Mail, December copy of To-Day.  Reading "Elissa", R. Haggard.  Later:  somehow all the old enjoyment of Rider Haggard's books of imagination gone, though I would enjoy "Cleopatra" again, and "The Ghost Kings".  December 'To-Day' rich with a poem of William Watson's, Ernest Rhys, "Some Dead Poets:  A Causerie", a most idle sing-song of meetings with the great:  such an essay as Drinkwater dissects in his Art and the Artist.
An idle day:  and I've not written to Mother for too long a while.
Rumour tells of our moving up again on Friday or Saturday to the old area, about Ypres and our opening there a D.R.S.
Today, over the low valleys noise of big guns firing.
December 1327.(a)  "You think I'm an impressionist?"(b)  "You were such a stickler for truth."
(a)  "Truth?  Truth?".  He laughed harshly.  "Honest work?  That means staring at a thing till you're dazed and colour blind.  That means," he grew excited, waving his thin hands, "seeing the outside, the mere rind and letting the great thing escape".
From "The Face of Clay" by H.A. Vachell, and a one side statement of the impressionistic school.
28.A route march through Courcelette full (?) packs up.  Delivered up to Frank S. books "Tides", "Prose Papers", Diary IV and sketch book I, "Twelve Poems" and "Lily of Malud", "Chastelard".  Reading this afternoon "The Face of Clay".
No mail today:  expecting two overdue parcels from T.B.C.
A compleated reading of "Face of Clay".
"I have met men who regarded the sufferings of Christ upon the Cross as inspiring not the worship of the world, but the masterpieces of the Renaissance."
The chapter heading fine with the back, and richly fine.
