
January 13, 1495.A clear star night, air full of frost:  a lovely day from early till late - one of the best of the Hermies days of last March when the 1st Division were advancing before Cambrai.
Supper in the hut with Toby and others:  porridge & cake from the Civil Service.  Vin Sellers singing in the Musick Room of our Villa Billet:  old songs of full and lovely melodies:  Basil B. at the piano.
A good day's ending to sleep on.  Finished the reading commenced yesterday of Ian Hay's "The Right Stuff", a pretty and a light amusing novel and well written.
Put in for Paris leave.
January 1496.Deep snow and fine snow falling turning out this morning:  then a faint sun, and skies of faintest blue - merging to the colour of the gleaming snow.
Mail, T.L.S. and some good announcements:  a new book of W. W. Gibson's 'Whim', & a new book of James Stephens "Reincarnation":  also two new books of Tagores.  Wrote to Beaumonts for "Whim".
Roland K. tells of his being engaged to an English girl.  Toby & Bill from home hear of there being "memories"!
January 1497.Letter to Beaumonts, Jan. 15 (dated),
Dear SirTonight a few readers of the ambulances have decided upon the forming of a miniature Book Club:  so - would you be so good as to act as our Bookman?
You will easily understand our position:  we are constantly on the move - sometimes a party established as an Aid Post in the lines - at the Advance Dressing St. - or behind the lines at the M.D.S.  So our books will be the cheap editions and pocket editions.
I am assuming you will act for us, so am enclosing a Postal Order of 2 to be placed to our credit and a list of the first books asked for - to be forwarded under my name to the 1st Aust. F. Amb.
We would deeply appreciate too catalogues of S.H. Books, and inexpensive and pocket editions.
Thanking youI am sirYours sincerelyFrank H. MolonyAct. Secretary
Never forwarded.
Tonight the meeting and little discussed:  selections made of Books, and my mentioning Beaumonts is the shop decided on.
