[Page 71]
January 30134.Another April day.
No mail.  Books from Hendersons overdue five days.
Wrote today, had censored &amp; delivered to Jim W. letter addressed to Windsor &amp; Newtons for one of their Press Sketch Books.  Rumour of our moving back near Bailleul tomorrow morning.
Yesterday Jim Mitchell back &ndash; and B. Section celebrated.  Jim knocked with Algie, were the first of our wounded at Ypres in September.  Looking well, and has hip wound well healed.
135.Book distribution.  In F.M.P. No. 1.  Diary IV and Sketch I:  Keats, Ginger Mick and B. Constr.  With Eric G. "Songs Before Sunrise" and Brookes.  With Frank S. Sketch Book II and "The Achievement", F. Thurston &ndash; from Y.M.C.A. today.
No. T.L.S. this week.
January 31136.Last night the guns that have been so silent for the last wounderful weeks opened out heavily bombarding and all the night kept continually speaking.
We are in our new position, leaving Dranoutre at 4.30, relieved by 15 Field.
FebruaryIn the R'Avelsberg [Ravelsburg] D.R.S. by Bailleul.
February 2137.Working in Dispensary with Jim S. and Staff Ford.  New D.R.S. not a patch on Dranoutre but better than A.D.S.s in Dressing Posts.
Yesterday coldest day &ndash; full of cloud mist &ndash; of the first of 1918, today chilly after a heavy frost fall, but the sun out, and a clear fine day.
Mail:  From Mat letter of Nov. 23 and from Lindsay and A.B. of Jan. 25.  None of the expected books, a mail now that brings me a book will be a temporary annihilating of all these damned [indecipherable] that mentally torment.
138.Is it the sensual element that has my appreciation of art?  Certainly in such drawings as Spares and Ricketts it is that blood-utility, that superb nakedness that fascinates:  but Alan Odles sensualism merely quietly amuses, and Beardsley? &ndash; it has the fascination of the obscene &ndash; the brilliant obscene:  yet for all that, even though it is so far removed from life itself, it remains always true to life and reality.
