 [Page 105] 
 March 4, 5, 7 201. A French Interpreter comes in wet and tired &ndash; "All day I have been on night duty:  I am wet, I am tired and I am 'angry', give me something to eat, I am fed up!" 
 March 5 202. Three great bombardments during the night of 4th.  Slept brokenly.  Today up, but still in hosp.  Read "Thomas Hardy" by Mais in "Shakespeare to O. Henry".  Must get hold of some of his poetry. 
 Basil getting on with "Gheitz 3".  No Mail. 
 Read again "Trees" that arrived yesterday:  glad I know some of Munro's stuff other than that in Georgian Poetry 1916, 1917. 
 March 7 203. With Frank K. for a walk to the O.P's Kemmel Hill, lying on fresh clean grass, full in the sun, well sheltered from the cold winds.  Just before leaving M.D.S. took from pannier "Keats" and read awhile in the sun. 
 Slept in A. Sect. Bearers Hut and this morning with Les F. cleaning instruments of surgical cases. 
 Last night Sheppherd gave us cover of Gheitz 3 &ndash; a good well drawn joke.  Page 8 to be compleated tonight by Basil. 
 204. Last night the Boche towelled the 9th with gas shells, this afternoon dressing gassed men, about 150 in all passed through.  Eyes sore, with slight irritation from gas on clothing. 
 A grey day with a poor faint sun occasionally.  No mail again, time books from Davis &amp; Oriole arrived.  Arthur Bull back from England. 
 205. There's a cold crispness in the air, and the great gun firing has its noise long carried by the shells hot breath.  Flames are softly rising and falling &ndash; swiftly arching and falling with dazzling brilliance.  Guns are intermittent, occasionally a burst of machine gun fire, then a moment's silence.  A Gas Alarm is on. 
 March 8 206. Two letters from Mother, Jan. 3, 7.  Three pages written in part reply, and two page letter to Lindsay posted, G. Envelope. 
 Taken over gas treatment with Les F. 
 Posted away "Trees", "The Bull" and "Last Blackbird". 
 Washed breeches and grouted pair of Aussy puttees and new greatcoat Aust. issue. 
