 [Page 39] 
 December, 29, 30 61. Tonight a stunt by Fritz is expected, this from the prisoners captured yesterday. 
 "Any mail today?" "No mail!" 
 Finished the reading of another of George Birmingham's "Lalage's Lovers", a good reading, a book in the manner of Lewis Baumer's drawing the 'Nuts'!  "General John Regan" I read some while ago. 
 December 30 62. Y.M.C.A. ink. Payed today:  drew &ndash; so now overdrawn 50F., 40F. with Tommy &ndash; instructions to procure a 26/- P.O., then to Beaumonts for Masefield's "Tragedy of Nan, and Other Plays".  No mail again.  Wrote &ndash; this time for posting &ndash; letter to Mother. 
 Reading Swinburne's "Eve of Revolution".  Talking to one of the Kookaburras who had come around for dressings, spoke of Frank D. and cartooning.  F. to go around some day after today as its probable some Kookaburra cartoons may appear in one of the early 'Aussy' numbers. 
 Rumour today of the Cambrai front for the 1st Division after their stunting.  Another prime report is Aust. Base at Brindisi, and Blighty leave every six months!!! 
 December 30, 31 Clarrie H. down today for mail and with letters to post, speaks of a second Factory Corner position. 
 63. This morning on S. Parade, a lot of Artillery men &ndash; colds:  husky spoken, from gas.  Diagnosed by M.O. as colds on chest!  Talking to one tonight who'd come back for inhalation, find him to be of the company of the Trench Mortars gun the Boche scored a direct hit on the night of the advance of March last.  The two left of the crew, Capt. Drummond and myself dressed at Edwards Post.  Pendlebury died later. 
 64. Tonight in mind for supper, a tin of Pork and Beans, to be heated up with Ideal Milk and seasoned.  P. and B. anathema since Spotty's been cooking &ndash; to the satisfaction of the majority. 
 No mail again, nor any report on rumour of its arriving. 
 65. Martyn at the D.R.S. today more than ever like a Beardsley drawing &ndash; badly smudged.  Beaumonts have a book of Davidson's Plays designed by Beardsley:  would like to have it. 
 December 31 66. Toby B. back from Hospital, evac. from Quehen a while back.  Toby would make a great subject for miniature, his colour is especially fine and clean and his eyes full brilliant blue. 
