
January 1598.Rain and wind:  and tonight a while of thunder and lightning.
99.Instead of posting the last page's entry - letter to Beaumont, wrote tonight another, asking if the supply of such books, cheap editions that we'll be wanting would be out of his line, also asked information of The Flying Flame Press books, and for W. W. Gibson's "Whim".  Mail brought the 1899 edition - Leonard Smithers publisher - of Dowson's "Decorations", a pretty book and in fair condition, but I am wanting his earlier "Poems".
Andy brought back after his and George E.'s reading of it, The Glugs of Gosh.  "The Glugs" would be a rather good name for our Book Club.
Today posted a 15/- P.O. to Hendersons for our first list of books,
Rusty F., Tolstoy's "Resurrection"Basil B., Daudet, "Tartarin of Tarascon"Eric G., Ruskins Sesame & LiliesEric Gibson, Balzac's "Christ in Flanders"Bob S., Byron's Don Juan - in favour of Rousseau's "Emile".Jimmy O'T., Hugo's Toilers of the Sea (you'll do me, Jimmy)Jack U., Lyttons "Runzi"Rube P., Marcus AureliusWatts, Dickens' Tale of Two CitiesTom Y., Thackeray's "Vanity Fair"and self, Balzac's "Tragedy of a Genius"
Arthur should join us to tone down our conventionalism - with Charles or Nat!
100.Word of Tibby Cotters being killed:  Palestine.  When he joined up the A.I.F., Mrs. Cotter told Mother "he'd joined as a Light Horse!"
101.The January To-Day a poor number - save for one fine little poem of Davies:  "Molly".  Copied it into the "1916, 1917 Georgian Poetry".
102.The rumours telling of our going to Egypt still strong.  It is strange how this still holds - the same charming us at the end of 1916.  Now it is of all of us bar the Artillery shortly moving - they to remain here in support to the Americans.
Another rumour speaks of their relieving us here:  another of one being in support to the other - which is most most improbable.  The two peoples will never join their loves.  The Scotts - especially the Gordons and the A.I.F., yes, the Americans and the A.I.F., evidence up to date all against it.
