 [Page 125] 
 March 20 230. No mail:  written to Mother, to Gerald, and to Davis &amp; Oriole paying 12/-, clearing now parcel received on Monday. 
 Reading "The Tenth Muse", a jolly fine and fascinating essay:  must read Donne and Chaucer. 
 At the P.O. found the Dec. 1917 number of the Sydneian, Roll of Honour numbers listing of 1461 names. 
 Quoted in Notes &amp; News is part of a poem of an old Harrovian, 
 "And the boy's beauty passed off the face, And manly tears made mist upon their eyes, And thoughts beyond their thoughts the spirit lent And to them came a great presentiment Of high self sacrifice. 
 231. At the University Junior Exam, I first saw him &ndash; sitting behind him to the side.  Then in Manly.  I knew every change of expression on his lovely face.  To have known him well I would have been happy, but it was only a casual acquaintance.  His name is in deep lettering on the Sydneian Honour Roll &ndash; Arnold Drysdale Savage, Pte., Inf.  He was a very great friend of Cliff.  Requiescat. 
 March 21 232. Break of day &ndash; a hellish bombardment carrying down from the line, and about Kemmel a hundred birds whistling and singing. 
 A night of black whipping shrapnel and shelling, shraps. through half of the huts, and from shells more alarms than casualties. 
 At midnight started a furious line bombardment, lasting over an hour, a rumour of our sending over gas, and of stunting heard from chaps in last night. 
 233. Evening:  before turning in "Shelled out of Kemmel".  The unit now somewhere about three miles from the old M.D.S.  Shelling that has lasted a week with last night's ration and today's made evacuation imperative. 
 A. Tent subdivision with Chud here still in Brewery Cellars as Dressing Station for Artillery and Local Casualties. 
 Self on clerical work, day, so tonight a sleep. 
 234. A round trip through the Stations found me Masefield's "Dauber".  I've read the first canto, &amp; could go straight through losing all sense of time, but my eyes are bad:  today 
