<p class="page" id="a3044005">[Page 5]</p>
<p>slope gave needed and longed for shelter. Here A.C. &amp; D. Companies "dug in" and prepared for the night, a portion of B. Coy. Going on to the trenches, where troubles came with a startling suddenness. My information about this is only &ndash; second hand but I understand that they reached the trenches, took part in a bayonet charge, in which "Doolan" Downing distinguished himself, and then settled down to defensive work one of the trenches. They only lasted about 12 hours, however. The Turks went for them with bombs, and what with these awful weapons and the high explosive shells, it was not long before the trench was a shamble.<br/>It is hard to find out who fell there, but I know that "Doolan" Downing was one of them and Lieut. A.J. Clarke and Joe Daniels &ndash; late joint Editor of the Pall Thro. and Maunfarimar were others. Downing I believe was blown to pieces. Monday morning was a day to be remembered by A.C. &amp; D. Companies. The Turks located our dug outs and for an hour treated us to shrapnel in large doses. Adequate shelter was out of the question, and we lost about 30 more then before the firing ceased.<br/>Later on in the day I was in the gully again, and saw four British Regiments (The Gloucesters, Royal Irish Rifles, Connaught Rangers and the Wiltshires) get cut up by shrapnel. They passed by only about 60 yards distant and from a fairly safe spot under a cliff, I saw them get merry hell. The shrapnel just mowed them downed in dozens and by the time they reached shelter, they had lost scores and scores of all ranks. If you could only have seen the glorious stretcher bearers whilst this firing was going on. Scorning all danger, they rushed into the fire zone, lifted wounded on stretchers and returned to the dressing station. Many didn't return but their fate did not deter others from the rescue work. Woe betide the man who calls the stretcher bearers "Body Snatchers" in the hearing of any of us in the future. There is not a man among them who does not deserve the Victoria Cross and I say again that you cannot honor them enough.<br/>But to get on with the doings of the 5th.  Just after Night fell, the Auckland Company was ordered into the support trenches and although we were tired out, we had to file up the sap, past the Wiltshires lying in support, past the remnants of the Gloucesters who had almost been wiped out, past the wounded waiting removal, past the dressing station almost on the firing line, and past the dead &ndash; the dead, already becoming a menace to health. And at last the trench a miserable little drain of 4ft 6ins.deep by 2 1/2 wide, smelling vilely of dead Turk and alive with vermin. To put ones head up was to court a bullet, even though night had fallen, but to remain crouching was almost to be poisoned, so we just risked both poison and bullet in turn. Thank Goodness, we didn't remain long. It was found that our presence wasn't necessary and eventually we were told to crawl out under the brow of a hill and remain under cover till daylight. No one prayed for morning more than I did. The place was alive with vermin and the near presence of several dead Turks made breathing through the nostrils a most unpleasant task. But morning at last came and with it an order from Major Hume to go down  hill, and make ourselves comfortable. Some at once started off but I wanted to have a view from the hill top so waited a while. Just a short while, however, for in a minute or two, a most hellish noise broke out. The Turks were making their big attack and they swarmed over the crest of the next slope in thousands. Right up to the trenches held by the Lancashire Regt. they rushed, and now I must tell you something that will make you think. The Lancs cut and ran for it, throwing the firing line into great confusion. You will</p>
