  
 3.  I had to go to Headquarters this morning to send the cable I wanted to, to Rid about going home.  From his letters I gathered that he was leaving me to do as I thought best as to the future there was nothing very much at all about it except once where he said that much as he would love to have me somewhere nearer he did not know if it were wise because there was some submarine danger and in any case he might be miles from where he could ever get to me, and it is so.     In the letter that came this morning he said there was great excitement in the town because a submarine (German) had been netted, crew & everything, and he said he knew that that was only one of many such occasions. I had a great deal of difficulty in getting them to send the cable they would not send it from Headquarters, & the cable office could not take it without a definite address; however in the end one of the sergeants from H'qrts came up to the Cable Office with me & saw the censor man there & he said that the only thing was to send it to Havre & risk it being sent on if they had moved.     I put "Considering Medina 11th reply," but the wretched address was nine words, and it is only a hope that it will get him though I shall know by the reply.  I don't have to book actually till three days before hand I found out from Cook's, but I have to chance what sort of cabin I get: I am sorry I can't choose one, it will make all the difference what sort I get as to whether I behave so well over not being sick as when I came over, I expect, but it can't be helped.  The man said the boats are not full so if I don't like mine I'll just make a fuss if I can screw up courage enough.  I think you might come & bring me home Father mine, it would be just rather nice and think of all the trouble you would save me.  If you can't, ask Jobber if she will, I know you can't Mother with the washing to do! Nonsense apart, Father please write me to  Ad  Fremantle or somewhere & tell me the Scotts address again I am sorry I have forgotten, only don't write to them & say anything will you in case I don't 