Sunday 30th
Last night I stayed at home and wrote to France also sent P.C. to Aunt Nell. Had just finished France's letter when I got one from her. The baths were open today till 12, then the girls "knocked off" but we had to clean up before we finished. Had a jolly good dinner. Roast beef, potatoes and arrowroot. Red Cross comforts arrived I drew a shirt and pkt. of envelopes but swapped with Arthur Butler for a pipe. Miles "Sheehan and a number of others from Fort Rompue came in for a bath stayed to dinner and had a most enjoyable time. Mac Miles and I went into Armentieres" after dinner (on the way in we met Bluey Stanton, who introduced us to a farmhouse where we got a good glass of beer.) It is a fine big town, but is badly knocked about by shell fire. Parts of the town are absolutely in ruins. We saw 3 churches that were wrecked, blown to pieces. In one of them an enormous bell had fallen from the tower and was almost buried. Whole streets of houses were piled up one on top of the other. We went into several cottages and they were just as the people had left them, during the bombardment. Books and trinkets lying around, push carts, pictures on the wall, articles of apparel and all manner of things. In one cottage, which was an entire wreck in the centre of an upstairs room, was a small wicker table and on it was a small vase, with dead flowers in it. It was about the only thing about the place that was intact, so I put it in my pocket and if I can will send it home. There are still thousands of people living there although it is bombarded every day. We went into a place and had a feed of eggs and chipped potatoes. Half way through our meal the shells commenced to burst quite near and Mdlle. came in and said "Messieurs,, when you finish, I close up and go to the cellar. Plenty big shell. No Bon" So we hurried over our meal and cleared. It seems a bloomin? shame that she had to go to the cellar, as she was a very nice Md.LLe. There are electric trams there but of course they have stopped running.