<p class="page" id="a3682021">[Page 21]</p>
<p><u>Gallipoli</u><br/>10:11:15 &ndash; they have not been fully aware of our "delightful" abode before this.  I have not doubted such a thing for a moment.  But we have been lulled into a false sense of security, because of their supposed lack of ammunition.  We have failed to take the necessary precautions against bombardment, viz., by digging into the bowels of the earth and making tunnels of retreat, which are the only safeguards against the tremendous lumps of metal which the enemy are now launching at us with prodigal expenditure.  Since Bulgaria declared war, Turkey has been steadily increasing her ammunition supplies and we are now receiving the full benefit of it, and our past inactivity is costing us dearly.</p>
<p>The bombardment opened about 3 p.m. &ndash; Whirr!  Whirr!  Whirr! &ndash; then simultaneously a number of terrific explosions took place, which made the earth tremble beneath our feet.  Then an interval of two or three minutes.  Then more of the huge metal monsters billeted themselves amongst us.  One completely wrecked The General's "dining-room" and shattered the adjoining Officers' mess-room.  In two seconds they had become a heap of smoking ruins &ndash; sandbags were perched on top of one another at indescribable angles &ndash; twisted scorched and burning timber, shattered chairs and tables &ndash; all confusion, everything wrecked beyond repair.  And if it had occurred an hour later, the whole of The General Staff would have had their names added to the Roll of Honor:  for afternoon tea is served at 4 p.m. and is invariably attended by all Staff Officers from The General Officer Commanding to his distinguished afternoon visitors.  The bombardment continued incessantly for an hour, during which time our lives were not worth a straw.  The air was full of flying shell caps, jagged lumps of steel and burning metal, and the rank smoke and fumes were overpowering and stifling to nigh suffocation.  The Turks had turned howitzers on to us and were firing rapidly and with deadly accuracy.  Our tin and waterproof roofs and sandbag shelters were of little avail against the huge monsters which they poured into us.  Their size may be judged by a hole which one tore in the terrace outside the Artillery Commander's dugout.  It was fully 6 feet deep with a diameter of 12 feet.  Beyond the great damage to the Offices etc., nothing serious resulted.  It was miraculous that there was no death or injured roll.  The wireless station over the hill was completely demolished and three men there were buried alive by falling earth.  They were dug out uninjured, though suffering very much from shock.  Their nerve-system has been blasted for ever.  I had rushed out when the first shell burst and took timely shelter behind a convenient sandbag wall.  It was poor protection against such opposition, but I had nothing else to do but take my chance with the rest.  Some, however, had considered discretion the better part of valor and cleared out of the camp to neighbouring trenches and saps.  The result of the bombardment has had the effect of accelerating the work in connection with the digging of "funk holes" and by five o'clock four more had been commenced by special working parties from the trenches.</p>
<p>11:11:15 &ndash; The Turks do not intend to give us any peace.  Shortly after 8 o'clock this morning they again opened on us and with deadly effect.  Their second shell wiped out four men and seriously injured two others in one fell swoop.  This party of men had commenced to dig a tunnel from the back of their dugout, but they had only got a few feet in when with a deafening roar the huge missile of death plugged clean through the roof above them and blew the poor devils to bits.  Another chap was blown right out of the door &ndash; he was blackened with powder from head to foot like a stoker with coal-dust issuing from the grimy depths of a huge stokehole.  He was completely blinded with grit and fumes and his eyes have been permanently injured.  His shirt and trousers were hanging in shreds and he was trembling like a leaf in the wind.  Crying out incoherently he soon fell into a deep swoon.  Orders were then quickly given that all should clear out until the shelling was over and the command was very willingly obeyed.  The bombardment continued for about one hour, then stopped as suddenly as it had commenced.</p>