<p class="page" id="a6787011">[Page 11]</p>
<p>have been as we seem to travelling head into it all the time.  Corp Hosier is writing here next to me.  He got back to camp late Wednesday night.  We have a nice lot of N.C.O.s here on a whole, like all men on troop ships they are hard at card playing.  We are still going, I think we are about crossing the Bight, the boat is rolling a treat.  We have all the cups and plates up one end of the mess tables and every now and then the boat gives a lurch and the plates and dishes start walking down to the other end of the table, if no one catches them.  It has been bleak and windy all day and as it is Sunday we have had no parade except church parade this morning.  At 9.30 I went to a Communion service with Corp. Hosier and another boy Corp Upton.  10.30 we had a compulsory church parade out on deck but the wind was blowing so hard we could not hear anything that was said.  This afternoon the Y.M.C.A. stall on board opened and gave out writing paper, cards and games of all sorts.  It does a lot for the men.  Our two officers Mr. Doyle and Mr. Binns are both very nice &ndash; Mr. Doyle especially &ndash; He comes round and talks to the men and sees if they want anything and how they are getting on.  I have a good lot of men at my mess table, rough and ready but not too bad at heart when you get to know them.  Ken is still pretty sick on it so is several others, but most of the men are all right now although the old boat is rocking too and fro.  There is a gramophone and piano just bye here supplied by the Y.M.C.A.  Just next to my table is a table of men that came on board straight from Darlinghurst, there are some pretty rough ones amongst them but they will make good fighters if they once get at it &ndash; 19th &ndash; I ommitted to write anything yesterday but as everything is practically the same every day it does not matter.  It is still very rough, in fact rougher than ever today.  There has been no parade today as the sea breaks over the deck every now and again.  I think we are making straight for Durban so you will understand why you do not hear from me for such a long time.  The food we get on board here is medium, sometimes it is good and sometimes it is bad.  This morning we had a stew of greasy water and nasty potatoes with about enough meat for three men in a dish for twelve.  For dinner we had stewed rabbit and beans which was very good.  After finishing this and when I thought I had had enough Corp Hosier came along with a tin of pears so I had to set too and help him eat those, which I did with great relish.  We have plenty of butter and cheese issued to us so that we don't do too bad so long as the stuff is cooked well, which isn't always the case.  Today the sea has been catching us side on, we have been pitching and rolling so much at times that the things come tumbling down from the shelves and racks all over the place and every one is catching hold of a post table or anything that he can to save him from falling.  Once in a way some poor chap gets caught in a wave and gets a thorough ducking to the amusement of every one else and at meal times it is great fun when some one has to do a run for the deck.  This morning at breakfast I saw several making out as fast as they could go.  Of course it is not much fun for the poor chaps themselves.  Ken is not exactly right yet although he is getting round much better now.  Yesterday afternoon I had a go with the gloves for three good rounds but although I could hold my own I am very much out of trim for boxing but will be able to have some good boxing here.  We have a good supply of water laid on for washing in both salt and fresh, we can have a hot salt water bath whenever we like and fresh water showers with plenty of fresh water basins.  Hosier has promised to take me with him to his friends &ndash; when we get to London so I am looking forward to having a good time.  I believe we have a nice long furlough when we get there, we will be able to do with it anyway after being cooped up in a smelly ship for so long.  We have had plenty of magazines issued to us from the Red cross, so we won't want for reading matter.  There is a canteen on board but it is very expensive with everything except tobacco which is much cheaper than it is in Australia.  I don't know how we are going to get on for washing as we would get anything stolen if we hung it out to dry.  The other night when I was sick I left a pair of puttees out for a while and never saw them again.  It is time for me to be</p>