
Map-Reading.  Standard Tests.
No. of Test - Description of Test.
1.  Point out on a map the conventional signs of objects enumerated.2.  From a map to point out on the ground points and objects selected on the map, and vice versa.3.  Measure shortest distance from point A to B on a map according to scale.4.  Set a map with a compass(a) by the ground.(b) by the sun and stars.5.  Describe a point on a squared map by means of a map reference, and vice versa.6.  Measure on a map the distance from one point to another by road.7.  Set a map by compass.8.  Determine if a point A is visible from point B by studying contours, but without drawing a section.9.  Take a bearing with a protractor off a map.10. Convert a magnetic bearing into true bearing, and vice versa.11. Take a bearing with a compass and measure it on a map with protractor.
Signal Training.  Standard Tests.
1.  Accept a message including counting and filling in preamble.2.  Fill in Sent Column on message form.3.  Fill in Signal Register.4.  Fill in Received Column on message form.5.  Send and receive a verbal message on the telephone.6.  Call up with(a) flag, known and unknown station.(b) buzzer.(c) ringing 'phone.7.  Put through a call on a 4 plus 3 switch unit.8.  Visual.  Carry out duties of reader.  (For R.A. Signallers includes Semaphore.)9.  Visual.  Carry out duties of caller.  (do.)10. Visual.  Carry out duties of writer.  (do.)11. Visual.  Carry out duties of answerer.  (do.)12. Visual.  Carry out duties of answer-reader.  (do.)13. Visual.  Carry out duties of sender.  (do.)14. Lucas Lamp.  Set up and align.15. Lucas Lamp.  Replace cells.16. Lucas Lamp.  Connect up cells.17. Lucas Lamp.  Trace the electric circuit with a view to locating a fault.18. Lucas Lamp.  Change a bulb.19. Lucas Lamp.  Change nightshades.20. Lucas Lamp.  Test flexible cord.21. Telescope.  Set up on stand and align.22. Telescope.  Focus on a blue flag unreadable to the unaided eye and read a message.23. Heliograph.  Set up and align with vane.24. Heliograph.  Change to duplex and align.25. Heliograph.  Regulate the heat.
Electrical Instruments Tests.
Cells.1.  Render active.2.  Connect in series and parallel.
Telephone D. III3.  Connect and insert cells and cell connections.4.  Test instrument.5.  Localise and remedy the following faults:-(a)  Adjustment of buzzer.(b)  Dirty key contact.(c)  Dirty Pressel switch contact.(d)  Receiver discs and washers.(e)  Microphone capsule.6.  Connect up earth return, metallic return, and use of condenser terminal.
Fullerphone.7.  Connect and insert cells and cell connections.8.  Test instrument.9.  Localise and remedy the following faults:-(a)  Adjust No. 1 or (A) contact of armature.(b)  Adjust No. 2 or (B) contact of armature.(c)  Dirty contacts.
Vibrator, R.A.* 10. Connect up hand set and cell connections.* 11. Test instrument.* 12. Localise and remedy the following faults:-(a)  Adjustment of buzzer.(b)  Dirty key contact.(c)  Dirty Pressel switch contact.(d)  Receiver disc and washers.(e)  Microphone capsule.13.  Connect up earth and metallic return.
Miscellaneous14. Connect up Fullerphone and Telephone on same circuit so that they may be used at the same time without interruption.15. 4 plus 3 Buzzer Unit.  Connect up.
Lineman's Duties.16. Identify lines by labels.17. Draw and explain a simple circuit diagram.18. Draw and explain a simple route diagram.19. Make a reef knot, barrel hitch and clove hitch.20. Joint and insulate(a)  D. II)  Single or Twisted(b)  D III)(c)  D.V.)(d)  D. twin Mk. III)21. Make simple joint in enamelled wire or single airline.22. Lay cable(a)  in open country.(b)  in trenches.23. Tap in on(a)  metallic circuit,(b)  earth circuit,and determine on which side the fault is.24. Test with Q. and I. detector -(a)  cells;(b)  a circuit, for disconnection earth and contact;(c)  In order to pick up wires in a rope.
*  R.A. only.
They must have a full map-reading course.Telephone, Telegraph & Fullerphone.  Despatch Rider.Elementary Electricity & Magnetism.  Aeroplane signalling.Heliograph.  Switchboard.  Cable laying & jointing.Compass, Telescope.  Several technical instruments.Must be able to send & read 10 words per minute on buzzer, 6 on Morse flag, 8 on semaphore, 6 on lamp and 5 on shutter.Also be proficient in riding, and foot drill, also gas-drill.
[Transcribed by Judy Gimbert for the State Library of New South Wales]
