a9403017.html
2.    7.5.'15.
reinforcements are. For some unaccountable reason the Bulgars are hanging fire though they are threatening to come into the fray every day. Same with Italy.
Our machine gun sections left yesterday and were given a rousing send off. The Brigadier made a few well-chosen remarks; the bank played "Auld Lang Syne"; the Maadi folk turned out in full strength and cheered them off. They were as happy as Larry getting away, and the fellows left behind were miserable as bandicoots. But we won't be long now.
I have tried half a dozen time to finish this letter but keep on meeting with interruptions. It will be a mighty poor letter when it does get away.
I really must tell you this story; it happens to be true. A wounded soldier at the hospital here got a lady I know to write home for him. He had his jaw badly wounded and a bullet through his neck and he started his letter "Dear Mother and Father - I hope this letter, finds you as well as if leaves me at present". Another chap sent a letter from the Dardanelles and it was not censored. It ran : "Dear Aunt. This war is a fair cow. Your affectionate nephew." And that was all. The best one from the front. It was : "My Darling Helen. I would far rather be sleeping with you than with two dead Turks in a trench." I hope Helen was his wife anyhow.
At the hopitals here the most extraordinary thing - so all the doctors and nurses report is the amazing fortitude and cheerfullness of the Australian wounded. They say they never saw anything like it in the world. They are laughing and joking all day chatting about the dirty Turks and itching to be back again. I used to think the desire to be in the thick of things was a pose, make or believe, but I know differently now. They are actually angry when told they must remain in hospital for a few weeks.
Here is a true story : After the shocking way the Turks mutilated our men the Australians never troubled to take any prisoners. Two Ambulance bearers were carrying a wounded Turk to the base when he drew a revolver and shot one of them dead. The other promptly drew a bayonet and cut the Turk into pieces.
Some Sikhs were set to guard a batch of Turkish prisoners. After about half an hour the sergt. of the Sikh guard came up and reported for duty. The officer asked "What have you done with your prisoners?" The Sergt. replied "Well you see, they tried to escape."
Poor old Ted Larkin M.L.A. Sergt in the 1st Brigade was badly wounded and the Turks got him and mutilated him. But their snipers cause us the most trouble. They hide in holes covered with bushes and stones. They have as much as 14 days ammunition and food. They stick there and pick off the officers even after their own troops have retired. Our fellows, when they get them, put these snipers where they won't see any food for a "long time ... I will try and send a few lines before we leave. Good luck.
Love to all.
OL.
Peter's last welcome letter arrived a few days ago.
