a9403025.html
KF
Anzac, 13.6.'15.
GAllipoli.
My dear Dad, Mater, Jean, Ame, Mabel, Leoda, Viva, Mrs. Kyle, Francie, Viv, Lin, Percy Allen, Farmer Whyte, Billy L., Clarrie, Phil, Frank, Did, Jean Begg, Nora N., Molly M., Ida C., etc. etc.
Mail day and I'm as happy as the birds in May. Our letters were evidently held up for a couple of weeks in Egypt, but the postman made ample amends to-day. I got 25 letters. The papers can wait. Dad's letter was specially welcome and particularly interesting. So glad you like the little things I sent out. I wish I had enough money to send a whole lot more. Jessie Jean my dear your letter was read and re-read. It was so sweet. When I get a chance I'll raid some silk store in Constantinople to get something nice in return. I enjoyed reading Am'es sketch in the Australasian - very good, Nina Murdoch will be pleased to have her poem used as the Text. A couple of letters from you Mabel - thanks awfully. Ditto Jean B. Also a welcome line from Billy L. and Viva (Viva you're an angel). Francie my sweet a line from you at last xxxxxx. Received also letters from Mr. Bardsley, Clarrie and a lot of others. I'd just love to wirte personally to you all but there is not a single envelope to be had for love or money in all Anzac. I've used all my store and there is a famine in envelopes. So we have to use up the envelopes we receive. I really don't think there is much news now other than what you can get in the papers. We are still here and the Turks are a few yards away 30,000 or 40,000 of them.
When Sir Ian Hamilton is quite ready, we will sally out, brush the Turks out of our path and then on to Constantinople. The Turks cant shift us here so we are waiting patiently for the signal to move. Its just 25 days since we landed here and save for the day of the armistice the fusilade has hardly ceased once. Now and then it dies down then comes with a rush. The shrapnel bombardment is spasmodic and I don't think the Turks have much ammunition. It's simple marvellous how the bursting shells get so few. They seem to burst everywhere. Of course we are all "dug-in" well and get on the "lee" of the hills, but they often burst right over our dug-out and the pellets scatter but do little harm. To-day Col. Ryrie, Major Onslow, Major Suttor, Major Windeyer, Major Rutledge, Captain Miller, Cap.Higgins and I were outside Col. Arnott's dug-out and 3 shells burst overhead. No one was hurt though a fragment of a shell landed in the midst of us. There is always so much more landscape to hit than man. I'm still very fit and well. Bully beef agrees with me but I'm dying for a bit of fruit. We got a couple of tins across from Mudros last week; it was great. I got a cigar from Col. Antill on Tuesday - it lasted just like money from home. All - nearly all - the infantry here are cutting their trousers short. These 'shorts' are very comfortable when climbing about the hills. The Indian army started the idea. I've tried it and I feel & look just like a boy scout. No cameras here or I would send you a photo. Our ships' guns shelled the Turks this morning and fave them something to write home about. Good luck. Lots of love.
OL.
