 a9403001.html 
 KF 
 Ailsa [handwritten] 
 MA'ADI 
 Egypt 
 15. 4. ' 15 
 My dear Home Folk 
                (That includes this same bunch of relations and friends as has been honoured with brief mention in this series of circular letters from the seat of - peace. For despite the fact that we are some thousands of miles from Sunny New South Wales,we are still peacefully sitting down on the edge of the desert. The bulk of the Australian division has left, but the horsemen t  have to wait a little longer till a landing has been effected). 
 So much for intro. We are thus still on in-active service. My horses are getting too fresh on account of inaction or too little work. "Bluegum" bolted with a trooper the other day and then with me. "Jean" bolted with me and did a mile in even time over the desert. "Herald" bolted with a trooper and threw him. But he never meant no harm nohow. He was just in a hurry to get 'ome. "Herald s " never bolts with me. Now and then he pulls a bit but just to show he is in a playful mood. He is quite the favourite. 
 My first real item of news is a confession: I have broken my brilliant ascetic record. Up till a few days ago I could boast with pride (and truth) that I had never kissed a girl since I left Australia. I have been absolutely loyal and true to the girl I left behind me (Mabel or Viva or Francie or Molly or Ida or whoever will ultimately take pity on my loneliness) But alas I have fallen at last. Her name is Ailsa. (Isn't it a pretty name?) Mind you I'm not sure that I'm in love with her yet. She is Scotch. Her mother's name is Jean, and she sings "Annie  Lau  Laurie" and "Mary of Argyle". She has a young brother named Ian, and he's a great kid. Fortunately he likes me. Ailsa has beautiful blue eyes and lovely golden hair - naturally curly. She comes to the Church parade every  Saturda  Sunday morning. As I have to make arrangements I generally contrive that she shall sit next to me. Her old dad is a good sport. He asks me round to smoke cigarettes and drink iced - coffee. Her mater invites me around to tea and to eat Scots cakes and shortbread. They have a lovely garden with magnificent rose buds. Ailsa gave me an armful on Saturday for my tent. I took her for a motor drive along the Nile. Wouldn't it be funny after all these years of single blessedness if I .. (Oh by the bye : How is Jack getting on ? Is he really in love ? Have you heard from him lately ? What is she like ? Tell him to write and let me know how it feels to be in love. I have not heard from him for a long time). Where was I ? Oh I remember, I was telling you about Ailsa wasn't I ? Well, in spite of the fact the she has lived nearly all her life in Egypt - except for trips home to Scotland - she is fair as a lily with lovely pink cheeks. Of course I never meant to kiss her (No man ever does). It simply happend. The worst of it was her mother happened to come in at the psycohological moment. I bluffed a treat and explained that I was only showing Ailsa how I kissed my sister good bye - when I left on this peaceful adventure. 
 Oh I must tell you. In order to show our appreciation of the kindness of the Ma'adi folk, the officers of the brigade are inviting them all to a dinner and dance at Helwan on Saturday. We are going to have a real slap-up show at the Tewfit Palace Hotel / 
