<p class="page" id="a3239068">[Page 68]</p>
<p>-3-Unit, No. 1 Australian Hospital Ship, about 88 in all. The men occupied 3rd class quarter (but slept in hammocks), the non-commissioned officers 2nd class, and the officers and nurses 1st class. The four colonels had suites de lux. This was the crowd as far as Melbourne. Nothing occurred till Thursday afternoon, the day after leaving Sydney. We suddenly noticed the boat slew round and two rowing boats lowered. One of the men had fallen overboard aft. round for about an hour and then return with the life buoy. But the poor chap was never seen to rise again. We fell in for parade and the roll was called. He will never see the Dardanelles, poor chap, but perhaps it's just as well. At noon on Friday, 16th July, we berthed at Port Melbourne Pier. Here we stayed, wondering if leave would be granted, till the following day at noon. On Friday at about 2.30 the advance guard of a band of Royal Australian Artillery came on board. As they approached the colonel came to the well deck and ordered no cheering. But a soldiers' welcome is never done by halves and we gave them three good ones, and they responded. For this we were ordered below for an hour. If you only knew how we hated the below decks, you would understand how we resented this. But the picket pitied us, and long before the hour was up we had sneaked up on deck again. There was a real Melbourne fog hanging over the bay, and little to do and nothing to see. But at four o'clock the fog lifted and we could catch a glimpse of the shore. I must say there is something cold and foreign about Port Melbourne, something quite un-Australian about it. I can't explain what it is, but that is how it impressed me. It became quite evident that no leave would be granted, and that evening quite as evident that the Infantry intended to take it. At about 7 o'clock a disturbance occurred on the gangway and the sentry was pushed aside. We heard the clatter of boots on the steps and then crowds streamed on to the pier and shouted to their more timid friends to join them. A great crowd went off. But the affair, which might easily have become serious, was checked in short time by officer who jumped to the head of the gangway and dropped the first man who came up to him with a blow of his fist.</p>
