  
 [typewritten letter] Copy 20th Battalion, 5th A.I.Bde Headquarters, 27th June 1917 
 The Secretary 20th Battalion Comforts Committee, 63 Pitt Street Sydney 
 Dear Madam, 
 I have much pleasure in acknowledging the receipt of 8 cases containing cigarettes and tobacco, so kindly sent over for the Battalion by Mrs. Moore, also, 5 cases containing shirts, socks and underpants which are very acceptable at the present time. 
 I wish you would convey my hearty thanks to Mrs. Moore on behalf of the Battalion and tell her how much the cigarettes and tobacco are appreciated. 
 We are all very much prejudiced in favour of tobacco coming from Australia, as the English tobaccos although nominally the same, do not seem to have nearly the same flavour. 
 The Battalion is greatly interested to hear of the success of the Fete lately held at "Ascham" and thank all the members of the Committee who took part in the Fete for the work that they have done on our behalf. 
 I would like to inform the Committee that we have again been given permission to get our band instruments over from England  and get a band going again. I do not feel justified, without the Committee's sanction, in expending any of the funds placed in my hands with Mr. Hawkins, on band instruments or music although I have used such funds to temporarily pay for repairs and extra instruments and I intend to replace this, if possible, by subscriptions from the Battalion. Judging from the expenditure during last Winter from this Fund, I think it advisable to keep as much of it in hand as possible for the present as a provision against next Winter. 
 I am forwarding to you a copy of the statement of accounts as last received from Mr. R. Hawkins as to the various items on which the fund has been expended and showing the present balance on hand 
 I would also like the Committee's sanction to transfer a certain amount from this fund, say 50, to the Staff Paymaster to be placed to the credit of the Regimental Trust Account to be used for the purchase of extra straw and to pay for any fuel that the men may take in the villages in which they are billeted, as our Regimental Trust Account with the Staff Paymaster, which is generally used for this purpose is getting rather low, owing to the number of claims we had  for firewood taken by the men during last Winter. 
 Again thanking the Committee for the splendid efforts they have made on behalf of the Regiment. 
 Yours sincerely, A.W. Ralston Lt. Col. 