<p class="page" id="a4893033">[Page 33]</p>
<p>PART   11.<br/>The Squadron continued to operate from the Aerodrome at MEJDEL until early in April when the unit commenced to move forward to RAMLER. On April 25th the Squadron was established on this new ground, situated 1&frac12; miles East of the town of RAMLER, which was formerly used as an aerodrome by the Germans.</p>
<p>Our occupation of the JORDON VALLEY brought our forces within striking distance of the Hedjaz Railway which constituted the enemy's main line of communication with that portion of his Army operations South of ANNAM. With this artery threatened, it was not surprising to find him extremely uneasy. This was one of the primary factors that actuated our hastened advance in this region. Had we gone no further than the Western bank of the JORDON, the operation would have exercised an important influence on developments in other zones, for it would have still compelled the enemy to maintain a strong force East of the River to protect his Southern armies against this new menace.  He was not slow to realise that if we penetrated to the Railway, the fate of his forces at KUTRANI, MEDINA and the vicinity, numbering several thousands of all arms, would be sealed. Therefore, troops which might otherwise have been available for other sectors, were retained with his Eastern army, while the apparent nervousness produced by the presence of our troops in force in the Valley, induced him to weaken other portions of his line from time to time, bu t withdrawing troops for reinforcements in the AMMAN Area.</p>
<p>This anxiety was further indicated by the increased activity of his air service. The German Flying Service at this period was organised in four 'flights' or 'squadrons' and had approximately 80 machines on the front. These units were stationed at AFULE, JENIN and AMMAN, with advanced aerodromes at BALATA and TULKERAH; while No. 14 Turkish Squadron was located at KUTRANI. The latter were equipped with 'A.E.G.' machines. Enemy aircraft made their appearance in strong formations, as if stimulated by the hope that numerical superiority might enable them to force an entrance to our aerial domain and gain information of our movements.  The only outcome of this enterprise, however, was that air-battles were of frequent occurrence, with a result that will be found recorded in the references to those combats appearing later in this review.  Suffice it to state here, that the enemy air service suffered very savage losses in personnel, material and morale, from which he never recovered.</p>
<p>It was during this period that we established absolute supremacy in the air, and reduced the German Flying operation in this theatre, to an impotent force. Hostile aircraft were attacked by our pilots whenever seen, regardless of the balance of numbers, and the impression that this aggressiveness made upon the German pilots is clearly reflected in the official documents captured later. In the official diary of the German Flying Corps, a copy of which was found at Turkish General Headquarters, frequent reference is made to our aerial superiority. Under date of April 4th, it is said "The situation in the air is still unfavourable for us; the A.E.G. and Rumpler C.IV., do not satisfy demands any longer", and later it is recorded that their machines "are no longer a match for the British". Special reference is made to the activities of the Bristol Fighter's during the period, in which the German pilot's impression of these machines is given. Writing after the close of the June operations, the following opinion was officially recorded. "The enemy who possesses in his Bristol Fighter an exceptionally fine machine, has made himself lately very redoubtable. Nearly always flying in two's the Bristol Fighters present an extraordinary fighting force, and their harassing of our activities became more and more felt." As 1st Squadron was the only one equipped with the Bristol Fighters on the front, this may be accepted as a direct reference to the work of the unit.</p>
<p>The 'aggravated shortage of reinforcements, especially of pilots is referred to from time to time in the German diary, and under date of May 6th., is  reported that '302 Squadron has to discontinue its flights all pilots being either wounded or sick'. Three weeks later Turkish Headquarters were furnished with a report seemingly intended to prepare them for</p>