<p class="page" id="a4893010">[Page 10]</p>
<p>A camp of 500 shelters was also reported in N.27 and N.28 (C.6).  The headquarters camp in P.7 (C.4) had been removed. In B.24a a new headquarters camp of 14 Marquees had been erected. Another new camp of 20 tents and 1 marquee was reported near HUJ in B.15. The only new trench work reported on the 3rd. was on the left flank. A series of disconnected lengths of trench was seen to have been dug in a line from the trenches N. of HERBIEH to ASKALON along the sand dunes and facing the sea. At SHARIA Station there were 14 R.S. throughout the day and at K.22 there were 18 R.S. in the morning. These had increased to 30 by evening.<br/>The strategical area was reconnoitred four times on the 5th. One photographic reconnaissance was also carried out. No movement of any size was reported throughout the day. On the right in general the line held by the enemy was not changed since the previous day (V.11) (Sheet C.6) to MERTINIA). The tentage in the enemy reserve area had decreased and the chief increases were reported on the right flank and between SIM SIM and BEIT JERJAH where there were also 250 to 300 T.S. reported. A new park of 30. M.T. was reported in K.27 (Sheet D.5). A reconnaissance which went as far as HEBRON reported 150 cavalry 1 mile E. of YUTTA and 80 cavalry at DHAHERIYEH and DEIR EL ABL. The broken line of trenches running E. from HERBIEH was carefully watched for fresh work but none was observed. In the morning 4 white (hospital) Rolling Stock were standing at the siding at DEIR SINEID, by evening they had been removed and 12 ordinary R.S. were in their place. 30 R.S. which were reported at the station in K.22 in the morning had increased to 60 by 1400.</p>
<p>At SHERIA 10 rolling stock were seen.<br/>On the 6th two reconnaissances were carried out. Considerable movement was observed throughout the strategical area.  The general direction was N. Camps disappeared and changed so rapidly that it was found impossible to keep a count. During the night a new railway embankment had been built over the WADI HESI to replace the bridge destroyed by the Navy, and 2 rolling stock had been taken to HUJ. The shelters on the right flank began to disappear and practically all the tentage in the SHERIA area was removed. Large numbers of horse transport were seen converging on K.22 from the line the enemy was holding E. of SHERIA. All the hospitals S. of WADI HESI had either been removed or were being struck, Although a close watch was kept on the WADI HESI line of tranches, no fresh work was done. In the morning 2 rolling stock were reported in HUJ. These had disappeared by 1600 hours in the afternoon. 20 rolling stock were seen at DEIR SINEID and 40 at the station in K.22. 10 rolling stock were reported at SHERIA.<br/>2 strategical reconnaissances and two bombing attacks were carried out on the 7th. Infantry, cavalry, mechanical and horse transport were moving N. throughout the area. Camps, M.T. and H.T. parks S. of WADI HESI  were being removed or had gone during he night except for one hospital of 40 large tents 2 miles N. of the station in K.22. The bombing raid reported the trenches at ASCALON occupied. A camp of 6 marquees and 20 tents and shelters were reported at ESDUD. An aerodrome and camp consisting of 5 hangars, 4 E.Ps and 7 bell tents was reported at SUARFIR EL GHARBIYEH. The following rolling stock was seen during the day, 10 hospital R.S. at MEJDEL and 33 R.S. (including 10 hospital R.S.) near BEIT DURAS.<br/>On the 8th 40th WING carried out two strategical reconnaissances and two bombing attacks. The situation was reported as similar to that f the previous day except that the enemy was retiring further N. A defence line consisting of broken lengths of trenches was observed running from the coast just N. of ASCALON via NALIA to BURBERAK, with a redoubt at ASCALON. There was nothing to indicate that enemy troops occupying this line. The country between N. and S. tributaries of the  WADI SUKAREIR  was carefully reconnoitred for trenches but none were observed. An aerodrome of 10 hangars were found just N. of EL TINEH station with a camp of 60 E.P. and 200-250 bell tents and 100 M.T. parked round it. Round the village at EL TINEH the camps were estimated at 500 to 600 tents. Another aerodrome of 10 hangars at ARAK EL MENSHIYEH and a camp of 18 E.Ps 2000 yards N.E. of the station.<br/>/Only</p>