  
 2 and we left the lee of Breakfast Island about 12.15. No sooner had we started than we got the full force of the S.E. wind & sea on our beam. The old hooker started to roll (&she can roll) till we got under the lee of Sek. We then ran smoothly till we left Alexis heads. These we passed through at 1 o'clock & then the fun started. She hopped all over the place, weather gunwhale then lee gunwhale under. She dipped her bowsprit into the seas and threw them along the decks. One AB whose hammock was slung between the weather mainstay & runner swung outboard & as she rolled back again caught another man & sent him sprawling. All hands turned out. We ran on for a few minutes but conditions got so bad that at last I decided to put back & wait for daylight. We therefore returned to Alexis & made fast to the Mission wharf. We eventually cleared the heads again at 8 o'clock. The sea had slightly moderated, and after setting our course (Nth) we hoisted main sail & jib. This eased her & sent her along in fine style. At 10.30 Dampier Isld (the scene of the recent cannibal rising) appeared like a faint cloud to the Nth and we shortly after rounded Cape Croisilles. Pr Adalbert Hfn was entered at about 12 o'clock. We ran right through & put to sea again keeping a careful look-out as we expected to sight the creek within the next four or five miles. We did. But from our position there appeared to be a bar where the sea broke heavily. Putting about we made again for Adalbert intending to send a party overland from that place. The wind, sea & current were all against us & it took us fully three hours to do what had previously taken one. It was too late when we came to anchor to do anything that afternoon so all hands had a bathe & settled down for a quiet spell, first erecting bogus wireless gear. Fri 6th (onboard "Lili" at Eitel Fdk Hfn midday) At 8 o'clock yesterday morning I landed with 9 men to scour the coast line near Adalbert in search of the steam boat. As our boat approached the shore we noticed a flag flying from the grounds of a small cottage. It was the dear old Jack. It is hard to explain one's feelings on such an occasion. Here 