
[Letterhead of Y.M.C.A.][Printed text]For God, For King & For CountryY.M.C.A.With the Mediterranean Expeditionary Force
PatronY.M.C.A. National CouncilH. M. The King
PatronMilitary Camp Dep't.H.R.H. Duke of Connaught.
Committee for Egypt and the Near East.ChairmanH.E. Sir Henry McMahon
In Camp By the Sea25-7-1916
Dear AuntJust a few lines in answer to your welcome letters. I am pleased to hear that you are both in the best of health, the same as it leaves me at present.
I received two letters from Nell and one from Birts Wife, she wrote me a very nice letter. You must have had a very wet winter home there, no I would not like to see any rain here as there would be a lot of sickness if it did, as we are living out in the open with no tents, only blankets hung up in the day time to keep the sun off a bit.
Well the life here is not too bad at all do you know that I am getting fat if anything, of course we buy a good deal of stuff from the Y.M.C.A. Well I think I got a good price for my wool, if we only have the luck to get a good lambing things will be alright, I will have a decent start for when I get home again. I am afraid this War will not end for a good while yet, the way things are going.
Things seem to be going all wrong in Kojonup lately, poor old Dick Spencer's luck seems fairly out, what with loosing his chaff and now his wife getting ill, things are not to good with him.
Nell wrote telling me what George [indecipherable] asked you about, and that you asked her if she had said anything to anyone. Well I am sure she has told no one, it is just as likely to have come from Edie as anyone and I happen to know one or two things she has been kind enough to say about Nell and I. She is more likely to say anything than Nell. Any how do not let it worry you as we all have troubles enought without worrying about what they say.
I had a letter from Dora the other day, saying they are all well. I wrote her a few lines in return. I meet Arthur Chipper today for the first time out here, he has just returned to the Regiment after getting hit in the First Gazza stunt, he is in the same troop as I am