
92 Nov 22ndCabbage &c same as our tommies -
Cinema tonight when a very startling Detective yarn was filmed - war films of the Kaiser with Turkish forces - German lesson from 5 - 6 no private lesson tonight as arranged
November 23rdUp early - Recd letter from Father dated 22-7-17 & & 19-7-17 also from Doris 10/8/17 - Recd 4 parcels
Football held today - Did not go. Lecture tonight on Rubber Plan
Played Bridge - To German class again at 6 pm - 7 pm -
We are still pushing in the vicinity of Bullecourt & have to date captured 8000 including 180 officers - also numerous guns The Germans here were completely surprised & the success of our manouvers was greatly due to the tanks, which have been improved wonderfully since our failure. We are also continuing our offensive at Egypt -
November 24thRecd parcel 2 pcls - walk this mng - did not go - German Class from 12 - 1 & 6 - 7 -
Concert this evening when Col. Williamson presided - It was rather a good show. I was called upon to sing, but did not oblige on this occasion.
The Concert Comm are organising a pierrot show & hope to give us a very good performance next Saturday - thence once fortnightly The adjt has arranged for a stage to be built, & authority for them to purchase special dresses &c.
The Commdt has at last approved of the Concert Comm purchasing costumes & promises them his assistance always -
adjourned to Room 67 where we partook of some excellent beer -
Antill has received some very bad news that his wife has died whilst giving birth to a child (the first) the child is also dead - 'tis an awful pity - poor man is prostrate with grief - they have only been married 12 months - The Commdt adjt & Censor have been exceedingly good to him, to say nothing of officers here -
November 25th SundayHoly Communion 8 am & Morning Service 10.00
Feeling off colour today, especially early this mng -
General meeting at 1 pm when the new Committee was elected - Olphert as President - Nervis as usual Hot aired about nothing - & accepted all suggestions as personalities - he reserved his right to appoint the Presd. & O.C. orderlies & O.C. parcels - ordinary [indecipherable] Committee meeting was entirely ignored. The barbed wire itis element are not represented at all on the Committee much to their annoyance -
Played Bridge - Had dinner with McAnally & Co -
November 26thSnowing this mng - first fall this winter - it is very cold also - Rearranged my bed, double banking with the padre, much to the annoyance of a few officers -