
89 Nov 14thRecd parcel today from Kate containing underclothing from my Kit.
Walk for invalids this afternoon. I went in Bath Chair. It was very cold, I nearly perished. The same German boy came along & walked all the way with me I gave him Chocolate. We had quite an intellectual conversation. He is really a delightful boy. Lodge & I quite enjoy his company.
Played Bridge. Recd list from Berlin Red Cross, of missing personnel of all Bns in the A.I.F. Cpl Walkers name was mentioned. I am afraid poor little chap went under - I do wish I could learn some news as to the whereabouts of some of my men & best pals -
November 15thRecd money this mng [indecipherable] 320 marks & 160 - Played chess & bridge - very dull all day & cold.
I approached the Adjt this mng re our repatriation He informed me that he has recd a telegram saying that the exchange would commence within 3 weeks & that all English would go to Switzerland & Germans to Holland, presumably all sick including those severely wounded would be exchanged first & then officers in order of length of service
Cinema tonight -
Burke Crossman, Unett & Howat, Green & Sinbad attempted to escape at 9 pm. They made a Hole in the ceiling & intended escaping thro' a small window from the attic by way of a rope Green led the way & make such an awful noise that he attracted the attention of several people who gave the alarm.
Unfortunately Green was caught the other 5 managed to effect a hurried retirement to their rooms after hauling up the rope, despite the Sentrys threats to fire if they did not let the rope alone. A search was made especially for the rope, but without success -
Another officer escaped this afternoon, masque He dressed up as a french orderly & accompanied other orderlies to the station to get parcels, (a daily custom) - On arrival at the stn, He discarded his greatcoat & cap & eloped in civilian clothes - He was not missed for a long while after.
November 16thSlept in till 11 am
A search was made this mng the usual ridiculous search - nothing was discovered
A special Roll call held again this afternoon when all officers were mustered in the corridor, & taken by surprise when the adjt started on his personal search We were taken into a room one by one & had the option of giving our parole to the effect that we had no German money or maps or compasses in our possession, or else be searched, also to give our parole that we would go straight back to our rooms until the search was over -
Several hid money & maps in the Billiard room, but unfortunately it was searched & the hidden treasures found
Another special roll call  held when the adjt announced that some officer had mislaid money and maps in the Billiard room, & that on application to him the money would be changed for Lager Geld with 6 days cells - Loud laughter -
Officer who escaped as an orderly was caught this afternoon -
Recd letter from George & Gertie Rushton - Censor recd letter from Berlin Red Cross enquiring about me. Mary Stubbings apparently has written to her German friend - who has written enquiring after my health also asking if she could send me some books