
been nothing doing. Our American neighbours have folded their tents like the Arabs and our chaps miss them. When they were together, laughing seemed to be the order of the day. To me their affinity is the most remarkable thing in the war - always together and (proof positive of friendliness), adopting each other's oaths. When they get under way the Kaiser will need all of his junior partner's help. A lot of them carry knives and revolvers, and they're more averse, even than Aussies, to being burdened with prisoners. They argue that prisoners make good practice targets; kept prisoners mean more to feed. They take prisoners but don't believe in keeping prisoners: unless they're out of cartridges. I am anxious to get back as, owing to changes, no mail has been brought from H.Q. for 2 or 3 days and consequently I am without news of you. Hang the car, I wish it would come: I'm in suspense till it does.
Bois d'Escardonneuse31/7/18My expected move back to H.Q. didn't come off yesterday. Something happened to the telephone wire and it was late before I could send an orderly to the nearest 'phone to ask if I had been overlooked. Answer came back that a car would come for me as soon as possible, but it didn't come and I went to bed so nervous I couldn't sleep. Luckily the Sergeant of the unit, with whom I share the dug- out, was in reminiscent mood and told me a lot of his adverntures, and other things I didn't know. His name is Mick Maguire and he is a farmer on the Victorian coast, a real Mick too, good hearted and a born story teller.
Later - Allonville,2/8/18.I broke off here on account of something or other which I've now forgotten and am only now again able to continue to write. I was already packed up when word came to say that the car wasn't yet available and I had to make arrangements to pack my things on a half limber and move to Partis' new camp, which was to be in the woods, a mile away from our new H. Q. All this was very annoying and it set my nerves a'jangling, especially as I hadn't had much sleep the night before. On the night of the 31st I was a bit overtired and couldn't get to