Tues. Nov 21. Reveille at 6. Break. 6.45. Fell in at 8 in marching order. I was told to stay behind as my old ankle was still "out of action". The rest of the crowd marched away to "somewhere unknown" about 9. W.O. came into the Tent, which was in a glorious mess told me to clean it up. I just got going nicely when "Wing" Smaile of A sec. arrived on the scene. He had just been discharged from Hospital after an attack of "flu", so he nobly assisted me. Just after Dinner the 1st F.A. arrived occupied our old Tent. Wing" I went over to the station to try find out where the gallant 8th were, but met with no success: so we settled down for the night. The 1st are a decent crowd, but I missed good old B. sec. "Wing" I turned in together. He was very "chatty" while he hunted among his clothes, I wrote a few lines to M.S. but I couldn't write much as "Lights Out" went, so I had to cut it short.
Wed 22 After Break. Wing" I packed up reported to Maj. Bollan who gave us a note to the R.T.O. at Albert station to arrange for our transport to Vignacourt somewhere near Amiens, where our Nursing sec. are, but the R.T.O. dashed our hopes to the ground by telling us to report to Bellevue Farm along the Bray Road, only about a mile away. We got there in time for Dinner. Machonochie's B?d Butter, quite a decent feed. Bellevue Farm is a pretty good camp, made up of wooden huts, which are quite warm. Here the stragglers from the different divisions are collected sent on to their units. There is a Y.M.C.A. Hut in the camp, where cocoa biscuits can be obtained at 1 per cup 1d per pkt. Needless to say it is well patronised. We made ourselves comfortable slept in till 8 next morning.
Thur 23. After Break. I was walking along to get a wash when I met Capt. Nance Reg Laycock, who had just returned from leave to "Blighty". Paraded to the Doctor, who examined my foot said I could return to my unit, so we packed up the 4 of us (Smaile, Capt Nance, Laycock myself) reported back to the Rest


 Thur. Nov. 23 Camp at Becordle. Here we got orders to report to Bernafay Wood (right of Montaubon) where the gallant 8th" are posted. We drew rations from the Q.M. started off on our 5 mile "jaunt". Capt Nance stayed behind with the 15th F. Amb. On our way we picked up another chap who was on his way to join the 14th. Before leaving Becordle I got some green envelopes from the 15th Ord. Room. So now I can write a good long Letter to M.S. Hooray. We got a lift part of the way in a limber, then we struggled along on our pins through the mud for another mile or so when we got another ride in a motor ambulance. The Roads were in a frightful state, mud up to the knees we were jolly glad when we eventually arrived at the A.D.S. I soon found Snowy" Atherton Mac" the old crowd. They soon make themselves snug, wherever they are. A nice fire was burning the place looked quite snug. Jacko" grabbed my mess tin got me a feed of stew amp some Tea. It was good to be back with the old B's again. Laycock appeared after Tea told us all about the glorious time he had in London. Snowy" Ath I made a double bunk we turned in about 9.
Fri. 24. This is rather an exciting part of the country to be in. Fritz put over a no. of shells quite near to our Tent. I didn't sleep much. Paraded at 9, then we got orders to pack up be ready to move off at 1 o'clock, to go out to the trenches carry on the good work. After a good feed of stew we started off under Capt Woods to the different Posts. Snowy, Mac Stan Wright I with Sgt. Roberts came to No. 1 Post. The wounded are brought here, our squad load them on to the Waggons. It is 10 p.m. now we are sitting in the dugout yarning. A few shells are screaming past but are bursting some distance away (Thank Goodness) There is a Canadian Battery near here Fritz is after ?em. A shell burst right outside this dugout just we arrived but no one was hit. One of the 14th was killed this morning, H.E. through the heart.


 Sat. 25 Nov. Only a few cases came in during the night. It was very miserable cold we were very glad when daylight appeared, although we did get busy again. The fire we had going made the place quite cheerful the poor devils in from the Trenches appreciated it. We got a fair crack of rations we cooked Bacon for Breakfast. Just over the road from us the "Comforts Fund" keep cocoa soup "on tap", day night, for the men coming in from the trenches. The Padre runs it (Rev. Ward) he has 4 light duty men from the Inf. to cut wood keep the fires going. We went into Delville Wood to get wood for our fire. No wonder it is called 
Sun. 26. Last night Fritz put a few shells very close to our dug out. About 2 a.m. he dropped one in a dug out about one hundred yards away where 3 men of the 58th were sleeping. Two were killed outright; the 3rd man (C.E.Wright) got 6 shrapnel wounds about the legs which we fixed up. He was anxious to know how his mates were, we had to pitch a tale. It has rained like blazes ever since we have been here, but now we are about to be relieved the sun is actually shining. Poor old Kirb sprained his ankle last night had to return to Camp. The water supply ran out just before dark last night, Mac I had to go into A.D.S. to report it. We went across the Paddock where the track is marked by white posts, but returned along the road, as it was misty we didn't like the idea of being "bushed". It was quite an exciting walk as in places the mud is up to one's middle. We arrived back wet through the cup of cocoa the mob had ready went down real well.


 A chap named Mitchell came in with a scalded foot. He Snowy Atherton had a great yarn about the East. Subs. footballers. During the night our dug out got flooded the water was over boot tops. We did our best to clean it up make it a bit decent for the 14th. We had plenty of cocoa milk kept a drop always on hand. The 14th arrived about 1.30 we were mighty glad to see ?em. We returned back to our Camp, where we found ourselves moved into another Tent. ] soon rooted out another fire pot we were quickly just as snug as we were in the old Tent. The Rum Issue was greatly appreciated before we turned in between our blankets. Snowy I slept together. The "chats" Fritz's shells made sleep almost impossible.
Mon. 27. This morning we were allowed to sleep in Lord how we did appreciate it. We didn't turn out till Dinner time. After Dinner we were issued with Lace up Boots to the knees. Some of ?em are real good, but others are just as useless. We had stew for Tea, then went to Bed early as everyone was tired.
Tues. 28. One party went out woodcutting another lot worked at A.D.S. loading unloading patients. It was fearfully cold. We saw a Taube brought down. There are 2 very big guns near our Tent, we can hear the shells whistling through the air for nearly 20 secs. Mac Deed went out with the 15th. The big game is very numerous our wag has renamed Devils Wood, Chatswood. Sergs Thomson Roberts were evacuated. S.L It is very rotten not being able to write Letters. Old B.E. will be getting worried.
Wed. 29. Crowds of chaps are coming in from the Trenches with Trench Feet. MacMahon, a chap out of C sec. I paraded sick this morning. Mac had boils on his Back; C sec man had pains in his chest, I had a cold in my Kidneys. The MD (so called) distributed a bottle of pills among us. The weather is frightfully cold the poor chats are feeling it keenly. Thank Goodness the Rum is plentiful in this Camp. Got issued with Knee Boots today, but most of ?em are no good.