Thur. May 10 (cont)
 We arrived at the R.A.P in the sunken road about 8 p.m. reported to Major Bond. Two squads failed to turn up we waited for them an hour or so before moving on to relieve the others. Our Squad, (Bricky, Howard, Johnnie Maggs Nigger Bowden I) went out to Left R.A.P. with 3 other squads relieved the 1st F. Amb. We had a good dug out which held 2 squads nicely. Reg Sutton, Arthur Butler, Sam Wallace Wynn Arthur were the other squad. 
 Things were fairly quiet we didn't get a case till about 2 a.m. on 
Friday May 11th 
 Just as we were about to start off with our case Fritz put over his Barrage the M.O. of the 59th told us to wait awhile till he slowed down a bit. About 2.30 we started off. Fritz continued to shell heavily, but we were lucky got through to the relay Post without damage. Fritz kept on putting his big stuff over the cases arrived just quick enough to keep us on the move. Harry Lambdon got a crack on the hand just before we arrived at the R.A.P. which made his squad short. Dick Scholer, Dick Kenna, Armstrong were the other 3. About 10 or 11 a.m. Fritz dropped a shell just outside our dug-out gave Scholer a crack on the Head. He went away smiling. That left his squad with 2. Then Dick Kenna took sick that left one. 
 The 58 Batt. were in the front Line they got it hot strong. There are thousands of dead lying about the stench is awful. During the afternoon 2 men got killed in the sap through which we return from the relay Post. It is not wide enough to allow a stretcher through


 Friday. May 11. 2 men of the S. Staffords were also hurt, one stretcher one walking case. Just before it got dark Fritz made things very hot. A big working party of Tommies was going through to the front Line for an hour or so it was perfect Hell. One big shell landed outside our dugout put the candle out. Bricky sang out "Hello! any Blighties" just as a chap stumbled into our dug-out with a knock on the side of the Head. Sam Wallace got wounded in the leg, while on his way back to the dug-out; which made 3 wounded from our Post. It was a most unhealthy spot we were mighty pleased when our relief, the 15th arrived about 1 a.m. on Sat. morning. 
Once during the night we got lost were wandering around with a stretched case for about an hour. I sang out "Reg Sutton" away in the distance Reg replied "Hello is that you Peter? It was the sweetest voice but one that I ever heard. We got back to the A.D.S. about 3 on Sat. morning. Bricky I got a lift in a motor Amb. from the A.D.S. to a collecting Post from there on to our little Home in a motor, with a crowd of sitting wounded. They shelled our crowd out of their old position they went further back, 2 miles nearer Bapaume. The A.D.S. are in a pretty good place, just outside the village of . It took us some time to find our Packs Blankets as they were all dumped in a heap. We were jolly tired soon fixed up a place to sleep. We put down a couple of duckboards lay down between our Blankets. In minutes we were sound asleep.


 Sat. May 12th We woke up this morning to find the sun high up. It was a glorious morning. The sun was shining the larks singing away quite merrily. Our Camp is in a very pleasant spot. Beautiful green grass nice shady trees. I had in wash all over shook my shirt, which was most refreshing. Enjoyed a good feed of stew a nice drink of Tea. Water is not too plentiful out in the Line, one has to be very careful. 
 After Dinner I wrote a good long Letter to Lill. The rest of the day I just lolled about read. A big number of Fritz prisoners passed our Camp this morning. We had quite a casualty list this trip. Beside the three wounded from our Post ? Len Palmer, Bill Macdonald, C.B. Arthur Cambridge were also knocked.
Sun. May 13. Reveille at 6. Break at 7 a.m. At 9 we fell in for Gas Helmet inspection drew rations. At 9.30 we moved off, through the village of Vausel to the A.C.S. in the sunken Road. We called in at the A.D.S. where our chaps fixed us up with a drink of Cocoa. We also had a drink a "bak shee" cigarette at the Y.M.C.A. which is located in a shell-shattered cottage on the outskirts of the village. Arrived at Maj. Bond's A.C.S. about 11. The London Regt. is in the dug-outs along the sunken road, some of their Battns. are in the Front Line supports. We had a feed, then we sat around waited our turn to go out into the Line. We expected to go out straight away, but did not move out till about 9 at night. 3 squads in charge of Bert Berry to the Relay Post, the other 3 squads to the Left R.A.P. A Tommy M.O. is in charge. Fritz was shelling heavily. Bob Roberts was in charge of our party.