<p class="page" id="a6013021">[Page 21]</p>
<p>is  not sign or trace. We pray that she was holed in some way so that the water might rush in and end it all in a few seconds. To dive &amp; then to find the lifting gear wont work, with refreshments &amp; air to last several hours with no prospect of release wd. surely be the utmost refinement of torture that even hell itself could find. Kipling wrote "If blood be the price of admirally good God, we ha' paid in full", and I am realising the truth of it now. We are taking in 1200 tons of coal but this we finish by midnight putting it away at the magnificent rate of 210 tons an hour. We have not had a single quarter deck Sunday service since we left Sydney. It has not been possible, &amp; up here in this torrid heat without awnings we cannot possibly keep the men for more than five minutes. I have  suggested to the Admiral that we might have the service just in the half hour of twilight in the evening. He seemed to like the idea. We have a test today (20th Sun) and Monday is being used to gather in stores. Nobody is suffering very much from the severity of war routine; in fact, a good many are having quite a nice fat loaf. The stokers have to shoulder the heaviest share of the burden, but on the whole the greatest possible care is being taken of everybody, so that when the emergency does arrive, every man may be on the top line of readiness &amp; alertness. The usual rumours fill the ship, but it is soon made clear what we are to do. On Tuesday (22 Sep) we up anchor, and sail past the whole of the southern coast of New Britain until we come within sight of German new Guinea. The Berrima is astern of us with about 600 troops, followed by the Encounter. After travelling about 400 to 450 miles we find ourselves off Friedrich Wilhelmshafen, which like many other harbours in this part of the world, e.g. Rabaul, Port Moresby, Samoa are particularly good.  We dare not take risks so Lewis &amp; Jackson are sent off in the picket boats to sweep for mines. This is done by means of a stout wire cable held by the two boats steaming say 80 yards apart in a parallel line. The cable is kept at a certain depth by means of a kite, and if there is a mine</p>
