<p class="page" id="a6013020">[Page 20]</p>
<p>the damage is not very serious. She has bent her port shaft &amp; strained the centre one but can get into harbour without assistance. We are under orders to return to Sydney, &amp; amidst all this turmoil we start on our 2000 mile jaunt to Sydney. Just as we pass out of the harbour, the Montcalm is coming in and her admiral is credited with the remark  "Where are your ships? I come here for protection. Your ships are gone". It is probably untrue. As we go, we send orders to the Encounter to prosecute the search for the AE1 with vigor, but no hopeful or encouraging news comes through. We do not like to have these German officers with us in one mess for the simple reason that we are unable to discuss any war news or affairs. One of them is the Chief Justice, another is a lieutenant in the Bavarian artillery who is an awfully nice fellow, a third was a planter, whose plantation of palm trees was burnt down by the natives. The governor is still at large but we've got the deputy governor, he is herded with a lot more in the midshipmen's flat. Well we are off to Sydney. I wonder if I shall have a chance to see my darling. I am afraid not, but I shall still try to smile and keep a stiff upper lip. On &amp; on we go, how tired one gets of the unbroken horizon, water, water tumbling seas day after day. We make plans for Sydney when suddenly they are rudely blown to the four winds. We were not looking forward with undiluted pleasure to convoying that great fleet of transports to Aden, but all the same we regarded it as inevitable &amp; right that this ship shd. Guard them safely on their way. But all at once without the slightest warning we are ordered back after travelling some 700 miles gone. We return to Rabaul at noon on Saturday Sept 19. Everything is alright here, all opposition has ceased &amp; everything is quiet. But there is no word or sign of the submarine; the poor fellows have surely gone to their doom. 32 seamen and 3 officers, the pick of the fleet too. It is too awful for words, and it is almost certain that they must have gone down within five miles of us. But there</p>
