 [Page 116] 
 to keep the things for long. The Cigarette holder and case, I lost soon after I bought it, The Meerschaum pipe I smoked about three times then let it fall out of my mouth &amp; smashed it in three pieces. The tobacco pouch I tore one day when I was getting some tobacco out of it. The watch and watch case I gave to cousin Wilfred when I returned to England, And the Gold ring I left in the lavatory at St. Pancras Railway Station London. 
 The food has been very bad lately with the exception of a day or two when we had it fairly good. For the last two weeks the weather has been anyhow. Some days we had snow, and others it was cold &amp; raining. The sun was to be seen on  few minutes on one or two occasions. 
 I have been in constant recipt of Red-cross parcels from Switzerland containing bread, I also have had parcels of  Groceries and tinned stuff from England. letters from England and from Australia have been arriving fairly regularly. 
 July 1919 
 [Transcriber's glossary: 
 Albert page 60 &ndash; is about 120 kms SE of Etaples R.M.S. Arabic Page 22 - On 19 August 1915 U-24 sank the White Star liner SS Arabic, outward bound for America, 80 km south of Kinsale. She sank within 10 minutes, with the loss of 44 passengers and crew, 3 of whom were American.  Chilmark and the other villages names on page 53 are all about 4 miles south of Codford.  Heydon might be Hindon Bapume page 68 &ndash; is Bapaume, about 5kms NE of Warlencourt. Bazentin page 68 &ndash; is a tiny village (about 15 houses) about 5kms NNE of Mametz.  Bazentin-le-Grand comprises two houses so Bazentin-le-Petit, which is not on Google maps, probably no longer exists.  Bullecourt page 78 &ndash; is about 15kms north of Riencourt-les-Bapaume. Cambria page 109 &ndash; is Cambrai, France, about 30kms ESE of Arras and about 60 kms NE of Albert. Carlshofen page 92 &ndash; is Karlshofenberg which is 4kms south of Gnarrenburg. Sir Roger Casement page 87 &ndash; Roger David Casement, 1864 &ndash; 1916 was an Irish patriot, poet, revolutionary, and nationalist. Shortly after the Easter Rising, he was arrested and executed by the British for treason. Clipstone page 47 &ndash; is about seven miles east of Pleasley Vale. Codford  page 38 &ndash; The village is on the A36 road between Salisbury and Warminster (also the location of a large military camp). Codford's 'Anzac Badge' was the idea of an Australian Brigade Commander who wished to leave a visible memento of his brigade when it departed. Ecort-St Quentin page 79 &ndash; might be the town of St Quentin but that is almost 50 kms SE of where the fighting took place (just east of Bapaume). Perhaps the village referred to no longer exists. Eddystone Lighthouse page 37 &ndash; is on the treacherous Eddystone Rocks, 14 km south west of Rame Head, United Kingdom.   Etaples page 57 - is about 30 kms south of Boulogne, in France. Fabrik page 113 &ndash; is the German word for a factory. Flaville page 71 &ndash; no longer seems to exist. Gnarrenburg page 91 is 50kms west of Hamburg. Konigsmoor page 90 &ndash; is about 50kms SSW of Hamburg, about 30 kms north of Soltau and 20 miles east of Zeven. Luneburg page 100 &ndash; is 50 miles east of Zeven and 25 miles SE of Hamburg. Mametz page 60 &ndash; is about 7 kms east of Albert and about 500mtrs east of Fricourt. Mericourt-Le-Abbie page 65 &ndash; is Mericourt-l'Abbe. Buire-Sous-Corbie is probably Buire-sur-l'Ancre.  There is a R de Corbie nearby and a village named Corbie about 6kms west of Ribemont and a village called Vaire-sous-Corbie about 4kms south but I could not find Buire-sous-Corbie. Munster page 81 &ndash; is in the west of Germany about 50kms from the Netherlands border. HM Auxilary Cruiser Ophir page 28 &ndash;  The SS Ophir was a British ocean liner owned by the Orient Steamship Co. of London, and saw three years' service as an armed merchant cruiser.  Pleasley Vale page 46 &ndash; is about 20 miles SSE of Sheffield. Reincourt page 72 &ndash; is Riencourt-les-Bapaume, about 4lms SE of Bapaume. Ribemont page 64 &ndash; is Ribemont-sur-Ancre, about 12 kms SW of Albert.  The other villages mentioned on this page are on the route from Mametz to Ribemont. Becourt-Becordaal is Becordel-Becourt; Meault is Meaulte; Dermancourt is Dernancourt; and Buire-Souis-Corbie is probably Buire-sur-l'Ancre. Rottenburg page 99 &ndash; is Rotenburg, about 50 kms NW of Soltau. Snackenburg page 98 &ndash; is probably Snakenmuhlen, about 5 miles SW of Zeven Soltau page 83 &ndash; is about 60 kms north of Hannover. Soltau Camp (Lager Soltau), the largest German prisoner-of-war camp of the First World War was built in 1914.  Stocton page 51 &ndash; is Stockton, a small village between Codfrod and Wylye. Steeple Langford, Bamford &amp; Wishford, page 56 are a short distance beyond Wylye on the way to Salisbury. Walencourt page 68 &ndash; is Warlencourt-Eaucourt about 10 kms NE of Mametz and Pozieres is about 3kms NW of Bazentin but there is a straight road from Pozieres to Warlencourt. Zeven page 97 &ndash; is about 30 kms SE of Gnarrenburg and about 50kms NE of Bremen.  So perhaps they had to travel via Bremen because that was where the railway lines went.] Page 114: Count Czernin was Minister for Foreign Affairs.] 
 [Transcribed by Rex Minter and Miles Harvey for the State Library of New South Wales] 