
[The diary on the following three dates contains a continuation of the entries for June 24-25]
June 24+
I never saw such an unusual growth of vegetation as I have seen today. We haven’t had much to eat the last 24 hours and no money to buy anything. We have a twilight here until about 9 p.m. So far I haven’t been particularly struck with French feminine beauty. There are some awfully pretty girls, but on the whole don’t come up to Australians. Most of them are in mourning and of course looking sad but bearing up brightly. For a while after leaving Marseilles we seemed to be coming through Lake country but they were really inlets although I couldn’t make out the entrance. We got into Valences about dusk, I suppose this is where the famous lace comes from

June 25 –was the most beautiful I have seen. We stopped at a place named Leo Lanimes Alesia for picnic lunch. The girls gave us a great cheers. Since leaving there it has been raining continually. Later on we passed through a place called Tonnerre the quaintest little town I have ever seen. About 7.30 p.m. We are now in Sens. We had tea at a place called Monterau

June 25 
The Parson has just told me that about AD 375 there was a meeting of all the Bishops of the world in Arles so it must be at least 1600 years old. I overheard a chap who was leaning out of the window admiring the country say in a stage whisper as though he was ashamed to admit it and the acknowledgement seemed to be forced out of him. "Well this country knocks the Hawkesbury into a cocked hat" one thing is very noticeable here and that is that the war so far doesn’t seem to have prevented the country from getting its crops in Another noticeable fact is the orderliness of everything. I suppose France has the best engineers in the world. Nothing seems to be out of place everything being done with a system. We are getting great receptions along the whole route. One little girl asked us if we liked to be going to the front and we were able to give a responsive "Yes" whereupon she informed us that "vous êtes grands hommes et bravos".


