<p class="page" id="a6623035">[Page 35]</p>
<p>The first class accommodation now used by the officers is very fine and some of the troops the artillery use the third class part and have separate cabins. There are a good crowd of New Zealanders on board and they apparently get the best of everything but we aren't growling. Alexandria is a fine port. A large open one with wharves and the entrance being only about a mile or two miles across and all sorts of shipping are in the harbour. From sailers to the largest Atlantic liners. our convoy consists of 5 boats and an escort of one destroyer which occasionally comes into sight and has a look a look at us but I haven't seen her lately. Three boats I think were bound for Salonika and she may have gone with them. our sister ship is the Scotian with the other division of our engineers draft. We have seen several destroyers about here and yesterday we got a very nasty feeling. We saw a destroyer coming up towards us and apparently chasing he a weird looking affair with only a small part of conning tower visible. It proved to be a submarine but whether captured or British we couldn't tell but probably British. She was travelling fairly fast with her escort and giving off a cloud of brown smoke from her petrol engines. We have passed innumerable boats on our way although for a time we were well off the ordinary route and saw little. Yesterday we saw land (13th) on the port (left) in the morning and on the starboard in the afternoon probably Corfu and Crete. Their coast rises very high and snow could plainly be seen on the top. A very fine voyage so far, perfectly calm with a gentle beautiful breeze and sunny although in the morning it has been rather shivering with only one blanket in our hammocks. nearly all of us sleep on the various decks and directly after tea there is a great scramble to secure their respective positions. our meals before to-day have been good but dinner to-day was horrible, and I had to buy some biscuits in the canteen. Reveille at 6.30 breakfast 7 Parade 1 hour 9.30 dinner 12.30 and tea 4.30 completes our day with here and there an extra parade.</p>