<p class="page" id="a6623020">[Page 20]</p>
<p>9.4.16 Church Parade this morning at 11.30 A.M. but as we had our horses to do we were excused and I was glad as it saved us changing into our uniforms. We expected to be off for the afternoon but much to our disgust we were ordered to exercise our horses and there were rumours of strikes etc but nothing came of it. I attended my first church service to-night an impromptu affair in which was much hymn singing and then an address. It was rather queer especially when various men were asked to get up and sing as solos popular hymns. In conclusion it was decided to hold a meeting on Tuesday evening to decide whether swearing were necessary and volunteers were asked to speak. I decided to sleep below to-night and it was well I did so although it was very sultry. I slept better than I ever did on deck. It came up squally in the night and nearly everyone had to come down and in addition smoke smuts were plentiful.<br/>10.4.16 It is raining pretty heavily and a good warm breeze and good weather for crossing the equator which we do I think about Tuesday or Wednesday. Keith Hodgson a chum of mine and I were signalling in French this morning and one of our three apprentices were watching us and reading every word we sent but afterwards told us that the French Signalling System was the reverse of the English and lent me a book containing the Key. it's very interesting but I won't have time to read it all as I have too much on hand at present.<br/>11.4.16 After our horses were finished to-day we had a hose rigged up on deck and a lot of chaps took a sea-water bath. Everyone was supposed to have one but the percentage was very small and it seems rather a senseless idea as there is a shower supposed to be always going and all the men can't be gathered for a bath. One man who was sitting watching the proceedings was asked by a none too popular officer to go in but he refused as he had one bath already that day and when asked again he said he had a cold and later on when he was taken to the doctor his temperature was over 100 however he was arrested and to-day I believe is to be brought before a court martial. last night I had to turn in early with the rain as it was so heavy and got some of my blankets wet and this afternoon we had all our blankets examined and the wet ones put out to dry as there is a decided chance of malaria if one gets a chill owing to the humidity of the air. The anti swearing campaign or rather meeting was held last night and was started by</p>