<p class="page" id="a6623033">[Page 33]</p>
<p>7.5.15 Church parade this morning at 7.30 A.M. in charge of an Anglican minister  but it seemed very flat especially as the crowd was so great that very little could be heard from where we were. A lot of our men have gone off this morning to Cairo as there were no parades without passes but I am writing and reading instead. it is rather dangerous although I wanted to go badly it might jeopardise my stripe if I was caught. later military police all along line, looking out for men breaking leave and I am wondering how they'll get on. Spent the day writing letters and reading. This evening band played for a while just outside the tent for the benefit of the engineers.<br/>8.5.16 First parade this morning the selected men for overseas were checked as several had been dropped. I got the shock of my life when my name was ommitted and that of another Cox put in. In fear and trembling I approached the officer who thank goodness said there had been a mistake and the wrong Cox put in. It was rather rough on him but I was jolly glad. We then had a kit inspection and afterwards moved out camp about 300 yards away before breakfast at 8.30. Fell in at about 9.30 and had our tents reallotted to us and had to shift our belongings again. Then parade over from 10.30 until 2. Fell in at 2 to go over to the doctors to be inoculated for the second time which we did to the A.M.C. about 600 yards away. When we got there we were told the inoculation wouldn't take place and came back and were dismissed about 3. Since then until now 7 I've been writing letters in the Y.M.C.A. Very warm to-day but to-night a strong cool north wind blowing and dust is everywhere.<br/>9.5.16 Fell in at 6 and I had a squad of 10 for fatigue cleaning up our lines until 8 o'clock. We were told we wouldn't  fall in again that day and repaired to the YM.C.A. for a game of bridge. However, half-way through we were called up to fall in to be instructed that a parade was to be for 4 for rations another at 5 for kits and fall in for train at 9. Fell in again at about 4.30 got two oatmeal or bran dog-biscuits and a tin of bully beef for 24 hours ration and then put out our bags to be carted away to the station. Tea at the "Resturan" and after variously wasting time fell in at about 8.15 and marched off after a brief speech by the O.C. Arrived at the station at 9 and started at 7 minutes to eleven going about 20 yards; however we made a dinkum start &frac12; hour later. We were again in open trucks but much more crowded this time and I had to sleep upright</p>