<p class="page" id="a6623048">[Page 48]</p>
<p>13.6.16 Called out about 10 to 6 this morning and set out about 6.30 for the front line. 20 of us went and marched in single file in parties of six close to the side of the road to minimise the danger of the germans spotting us and using artillery or machine guns. The way is about 6 miles very winding and completely screened by the wayside trees, bushes, and grass and really there is no danger at all or at least not apparent. The communication trench winds about a mile before coming to the front line and all the places we passed through was planted with artillery although we couldn't see any of it as it was so well screened. The trench is just wide enough for one to walk through and is revetted with stakes and wire netting painted to represent natural colours with painted sandbags on top and several parts of the road are screened until one is right up to it. Bottom of the trench is a duck board with wire netting to get a grip and a sump underneath to catch the water. We went in by way of V.C. corner where O'Leary won his V.C. &amp; thence to the front by Finney Avenue. Shell holes are numerous and quite close to the path and some trees have been smashed. This place was occupied by the Germans at the beginning of the war and trenches, barb-wire entanglements and dug outs are numerous all over the place. When we got up to the front after waiting about half-an-hour we found we weren't wanted and had to tramp all the way back. A sap is being made preparatory to bringing the trenches closer together being now 400 yards apart and this place is rather a dangerous one as it is in the form of a horse shoe and every place can be enfiladed. The artillery occupies the inner part of the horseshoe and is very cleverly concealed. There is very little doing and one would hardly know one was in the front line only an occasional few shots being exchanged but it is intensely dangerous to leave one's head exposed over the parapet except for an instant and never twice at the same point. One casualty was being carried out just as we entered being wounded in the shoulder. 10th Battalion hold the line here all from South Australia and I met V. Sobels from Clare an old Saints boy as soon as I got there. We left 3 men to guard the sap and they had a rough time of it. At 1.15 the german artillery opened fire and rained down aerial torpedoes and whizz-bangs one casualty &ndash; an officer hit in the abdomen &ndash; The rest of our men found their own way back but two chaps and myself came back with a sergeant who lost us and took us miles out of our way towards Fleurbaix. We asked the way of our A.M.C. man who <strike>told</strike> turned out to be Dave Evans a chap I knew at school and his brother is nearby in the artillery. We had some beer on the way and got back at about 1 o'clock very tired</p>