<p class="page" id="a6623049">[Page 49]</p>
<p>and after grabbing some dinner slept all the afternoon and had to go to out again at 6 o'clock. Wet and raining all the time and this time we were again not wanted in the mud as it was too dangerous working in the sap and we came back at about 9.30 this time without losing ourselves and were very tired. Rumour going about that we were all to return to our own companies. Sleep did not come early as the guns kept us awake for a while. Russians captured 114,700 prisoners and bad Canadian reverse at Ypres.<br/>14.6.16 Stayed in bed until 7 and after breakfast were told to fall in at 9.30 to go back to our units. Marched first to Pioneers headquarters and got our papers. Then on through the town to the C.R.E. and gave in my papers and after a while we each went to our units. 8 of us going to the 3rd where we are awaiting orders now as to where we are going and when. Had dinner at a little house consisting of 3 fried eggs butter and bread galore and a cup of coffee for 10d. Did a bit of fatigue in the afternoon and rested the rest. Millions of rats here and they kept us awake scratching but weren't running round much. All French Houses seem to be built round a central yard with a dump pit in the middle where all rubbish and manure is put and emptied when full probably to be near the house in the cold winter. In this yard is always the pump. This house has two families living here and 4 very pretty and fascinating daughters who think nothing of hard work but always look fresh. There are two middle aged men also who yesterday were gleaning haricot beans in a winnower. The sergeant major and officers are a fine lot and ever courteous and treat us quite as equals. Couldn't sleep very well probably as I was "full up" of sleep and only felt very tired in the legs. Very cold all night with only one blanket.<br/>15.6.16 This morning there was a great argument as to whether we should all get up for 1st parade at 6.30 or stay in bed but eventually decided on the latter and nothing happened. Bully and cheese for breakfast at 6.45 and fell in at 7.45 for about 10 minutes for our duties. We stood by all day until 1 when we were drafted into our sections. I cleaned up my kit this morning and my wife and fixed things up generally. Lunch at 12. No dinner in middle of the day and had tea and bully, falling in at 1 when we were drafted to our sections. I going to No 2 which are up in the firing line at Elbow Farm and we leave to-night on the waggon. After getting fixed with 50 rounds of bullets and a steel helmet &ndash; a funny green affair weighing</p>