<p class="page" id="a6623017">[Page 17]</p>
<p>3.4.16 Strong north-east wind blowing to-day but about 10 o'clock it cleared up and the sun shone through beautifully and it was very pleasant to sit in its rays. We managed to get our kit bags to-day and I was able to find some books I wanted and now have plenty and to spare. We were allowed the afternoon off to do our washing but as I had already done mine yesterday I turned out my kit and played bridge until tea-time. It is fairly calm again now and quite pleasant neither too hot not too cold. Another boat drill takes place at 8 o'clock to-night. Only the second we have had so far. The Shropshire which called in at Fremantle has just wirelessed us and we expect her to catch us up to-night. Wonder if we'll get any news from the outside world we seem quite cut-off and don't in the least know how this war is progressing.<br/>4.4.16 To-day we are supposed to enter the tropical zone, I believe and will be in for 7 days. It was a beautiful day with a pleasant warm breeze and comparatively calm. There was a very fine sunset with heavy dark clouds hanging over the west and fringed with a beautiful golden radiance. Schools of flying fish just before dark were seen flying from our oncoming bows and they fly about up to 75 to 100 yds at a stretch and fairly close to the surface of the water. They are hard to observe as they are so like the colour of the sea, Decided to sleep on deck to-night and after hauling my bunk out early lay on the deck with the cool air blowing and the heavens ablaze with stars. It was a perfect evening. Went to sleep directly feeding was done or rather went to bed. A row started because the lights in our sleeping quarter went out at 9.30 as per regulations which was most unusual and the unlucky corporal was counted out amid all sorts of weird cries alleged to be imitations of a farmyard and not at all bad which continued until 10.30 with musical accompaniment. We had to parade in full uniform at 2 PM yesterday and everyone was jolly glad when it was al over. Reason for parade unknown</p>