<p class="page" id="a6623014">[Page 14]</p>
<p>sheet of notepaper but I am depending on their clemency and if they like they can erase anything that doesn't please them but it has altered things considerably. As it was so rough last night double horse pickets were put on and I had a relief from 10.30 to 2.30. I didn't mind it much as I had had plenty of sleep and spent the time reading up our text book and got through a good amount. our duties were to see that the horses weren't interfered with and to report any sickness but it was only a nominal job and we had nothing to do all night. After my job about 4 in the morning a big steamer passed us so I was told and she was probably a troopship the "Shropshire" just leaving the West. I caught a glimpse of her next morning and she appeared very fine &amp; big. She is 14000 tonnes.<br/>29.3.16 off duty till 12 this morning and am passing the time by reading up text books and learning Morse signalling and cipher codes which is very interesting. Still very rough and at this mornings parade 4 men were washed into the scuppers and were variously bruised by a bonzer wave. passed Cape Leeuwin this morning I think and saw land for the last time for a good while to come now. Also it was the last of Australia. At lunch time we passed two transports bound for Australia following each other closely. The first the A6 and one of the "Clan" line &ndash; passed quite close but the other some distance away. The afternoon was  spent in moving bags of chaff from one hatch to another and in the evening after a good sea water bath read "evolution" in bed until 9 and it was very interesting being more technical than just a general explanation. The canteen steward who I always thought seemed a sleepy looking specimen has just discovered that his stores for the voyage are somehow or other very short and consequently after this week we shall be without nearly all foodstuffs and only a limited quantity of tobacco and other goods. Four of us have joined together and bought 4 tins of preserved fruit each which ought to last us for some time</p>