<p class="page" id="a6623088">[Page 88]</p>
<p>12.10.16 We were quickly mobile and I got my bike which Boulton had been using and some chocolate for use on the way and left at 10 o'clock our packs being carried in a motor lorry. We hadn't got far on the road to Steenvoorde when my back tyre blew out so Linton and I stopped to fix it up and then going on we lost sight of the transport but picked up the rest of the 3rd brigade and after getting ahead of them soon found our way into Steenvoorde arriving about 12 o'clock. Very stiff and dry wind all the way and the dust didn't make things pleasant. We passed through Abeele before reaching Steenvoorde and decided to have some dinner on arriving after a glass of beer. Had chips and eggs and coffee for dinner. In the restaurant we saw the motor drivers of our transport who told us approximately where our billets were. So we set out for them and on the way met Bolton who asked us if we were going into Hazebrouck. He directed us as he was billeting officer so we rode in and found the place &ndash; an old farm. We fixed up our bed in a hay loft and spent the night in the hay and were so comfortable although ricketty.<br/>13.10.16 Had orders to move at 9.30 next morning and Bolton was to leave for England but at 7 o'clock he got Linton and I to accompany him on bikes to next billeting place and things were rather hurried. We had a very hard ride with our loaded bikes while Bolton had a free bike and we got bogged in a back lane and had to go across country over ploughed fields and over a valley with a big ditch at the bottom and we were nearly knocked up. It was a lot of up hill work and we only had a couple of drinks on the way at Boltons expense and felt better. However, we arrived a Noordpeene at 10 to 9 instead of 8 o'clock but in time to fix up about the billets and the officers had a beautiful to live in for the night and the men the usual. We had a good look round the small but historic village (dates from 1509) and then had dinner at the chateau where we had been invited by the people to sleep in the farm itself attached. Dinner was of soup eggs &amp; bacon &amp; chips and fruit with a bottle of red wine. After we rode down to the next village where we expected our men to pass through and where was the second army signalling corps. However, we waited for a good while in vain and then returned and met them coming from a different direction and they had gone a long way round. Arrived about 2. Major upset all the billet plans and we had to cart all our things to the back of the church</p>