<p class="page" id="a6623080">[Page 80]</p>
<p>of trench allotted them for bombardment.. We also sent over many trench mortar bombs and they were plainly visible and set up a queer whistling. The trench we were in was absolutely crammed with men in a very bad move and as soon as the Germans detected any move at all in our trench they bombarded us but I don't know how they got their observations unless by a Taube which was supposed to be above us. Shells were continually blowing in our trench and we were moving backwards and forwards to get away from the exposed portion being in between two infantry parties both moving oppositely and in the end we were hopelessly jammed. On one cornet 7 shells came over in quick succession and wounded several. orders were passing up and down to move out and much swearing happened when nothing occurred. One shell came over on a crowd of our  men and infantry carrying ammunition and 7 were killed outright and 3 badly wounded. Brown had his head blown off. Our men were gradually getting excited and losing control of themselves. A remarkable thing was that as soon as our bombardment started the German infantry opened with rifle and machine gun fire and we were compelled to keep below the parapet both being very unusual but the awful part was to hear the machine guns and then the rifle fire gradually diminishing until none was left. our bombardment ceased and thenceforth our shells passed over in very few numbers indeed. German flares had previously passed  right over our strike>ther</strike> trench and exposed us when anyone moved which gives us an idea of their proximity. The 10th Batt captured the 1st &amp; 2nd lines without opposition almost but on going beyond to the third which wasn't necessary they got badly cut up and there were rumours of them being cut off and nearly annihilated. We had been trying hard to get up to our work to dig a communication trench to the 10th's new line but couldn't get near at all. We moved <strike>near</strike> to another trench and waited here and soon after got an order to stand to and to pass it along as far as it would go. We waited until 10 minutes and then got the order to retire for which we were very thankful although we wanted to do something <strike>for</strike> having come right out there. During our moving in the trenches we had to walk over dead bodies and later on we were told to avoid the sleeping men but everyone knew they were dead and the stench was awful. Shell shock was prevalent but it was really more "nerves". Linton Toogood, Morissey, Pope all broke up completely and in the end we only had about 16 men instead of 60 which probably had something to do with our retirement. We were led out by our messengers Tonkin &amp; Ingram and got out much quicker than we entered although it seemed a terrible long way and we seemed to follow the firing line all the way. We got a much appreciated cup of tea at the Australian Comfort Fund stall just outside the actual danger zone on the Bapaume Road in a hollow and were much cheered. But our troubles weren't over yet and were dragging along the road when a premature burst of one of the guns occurred and pieces of the shell fell all round us luckily without hitting anyone and a bit further on one from a long range gun occurred and we could hear the shell hurtling over and over through the air. We got home at last and after settling MacNamara's bed and getting things ready I went straight to sleep.</p>