<p class="page" id="a6623076">[Page 76]</p>
<p>hessian covered shelter as it looked rainy. Coming up to the hill we saw some batteries of 9.2 howitzers called "Saucy Janes" and their huge ammunition. After tea had a good wash and went to bed where we had some songs and a long talk. Sure enough it rained and I get a bit wet and was sleeping in a pool of water. Saw Hodges and they moved out to La Boiselle at 5.30 where the 2nd company had previously moved so as to be nearer the scene of operations.<br/>17.8.16 Reveille at 6 and drill order at 6.30 when some of No 1 sector went out on some job. Rest of the morning we are awaiting orders to move. The front seems very quiet this time so far except for the howitzers behind us and numerous planes. Also counted 26 balloons of ours up and 6 of Fritzs last night. Cleaned everything up in the morning and were told to be ready to move at 2 o'clock carrying blankets and packs to a spot about a mile out of Albert. The we were told the limbers would carry our blankets for which we were very grateful. We were to take our bikes but when I had everything packed and tested the bike the back tyre subsided suddenly and I had to walk with my pack. Pretty hot work but wasn't far and arrived about 3.30 just behind the hill before Albert and previously untenable. We got some tea going and had some rations issued <strike>when</strike> and also got letters from Gene Gray, Norah Rogers, Jack, Kathleen Cowan and just as I had started were told to be in fighting order in 20 minutes and set off about 5 o'clock this time taking the Bapaume road and on the left passing up was La Boiselle and further on Ovillers. La Boiselle in the advance had been blown up by mines and large numbers of Germans killed as there was a trench right through it and only things standing were some old farm implements with a binder. Passed on to Sausage Gully and there at its top were our tools at a dump. It began to rain pretty badly here and we all got more or less wet and in addition Fritz sent over some H-2 shells near us. We then proceeded towards our work over trenches which had been blown in in places and very shallow in others. Got as far as A strong point where we passed some Scots who were very keen and had us halted and inspected before letting us pass. here we were ordered back on account of violent shell fire and because the trenches were to be kept clear for casualties and communications. We retired to the dump and awaited further orders which we received in about &frac34; of an hour to carry on with our job. Leaving overcoats and all unnecessary gear behind at the dump we arrived about 9 at A strong point where our work was. On the whole the night was much hotter than the previous one before Pozieres although we were more seasoned. We had 150 infantry with us of the 5th Batt &ndash; to help. previously most of the second Company left us in the lurch when we came back to the dump and also several rotters of our own men and we were rather short handed. The trenches were very narrow and made it hard to keep in touch with each other with such a big party. our trenches were nearly all disconnected and it was our job to make a new fire trench so as to more nearly connect the others.</p>