<p class="page" id="a6623078">[Page 78]</p>
<p>Reached home about 10.30 where we got some tea and bacon and lay down dead tired in a dugout and slept until about 6.30 P.M. when MacNamara thoughtfully brought us tea when I got mine Tonkin sleeping until 7 when he got his. Then we went to bed again and slept till about 7.30 and then had some breakfast.<br/>19.8.16 Got up and still raining slightly and greatly upset by the appearance of my rifle and kit covered in mud and dirt and rust. However, I cleaned things up a bit and this afternoon did a bit of work making a shelter until it rained again. Got an old letter from Melva March 2 and one from N.A.R. and a parcel containing an underpants and plenty of papers from Auntie Sarah. Nobody going out to-night and I am transfering my quarters to MacNamara's dugout. Heard that Thiepval was captured by the Tommies and also that most of the 8th Battalion were wiped out in attack told us by H3 sections who were out last night. They had several casualties but we only one who was "shell shocked" and rather queer. This afternoon was detailed to a job with 7 others of making a shelter for C.R.E. but we had just started when it rained a little and we had to knock off. Nos 2 and 4 sections were given notice to be ready to leave in half an hour for the front and McNamara who was working with me volunteered although we were exempt on that account and took Lintons place. I felt rather cold footed to stay out for such a little thing but it was "orders" and suppose alright. I slept with Linton in his dugout at his own request as he is rather nervous and I think was very glad to be out of it.<br/>20.8.16 Sunday although it appeared as any other day of the week to me. Slept rather cold and two men came in about 5.30 (who were runners) to our dugout and later about 6.30 the rest came in rather tired but without any casualties as when they got up there they found all their work done and set to improving trenches. I got up about 7 and got breakfast and about 7.30 started work and finished just on 12. Had dinner, only tea, and at 2 0'clock was sent out with 5 others to gather 100 picks and shovels for the evenings work when all the company was to go out. There is I believe to be an advance along 10 miles of front and 21 divisions to be employed. We went up towards La Boiselle and on the way were treated to some "whizz-bangs" which by their sudden appearance upset us a bit. proceeded onwards to the chalk pits and at length gathered 88 picks and I and two others went on further behind Pozieres and just behind the firing line sheltered by a high ridge in search of tools but found none. Awful sights about and a horrible stench. men were dead everywhere and half decomposed and surrounded by clouds of flies. Then came back and at length found our quota of tools and returned home getting a cup of tea and a ride arriving about 4.30 just when tea was being got.</p>