<p class="page" id="a6623092">[Page 92]</p>
<p>a bit and then went for a walk up on to the hill and through a wood where I had some difficulty in getting through. Had tea and then wandered down the village and coming back went to church. The priest played the organ but there were nearly all children there and not much of a service. Went for a short walk with Ludlow and then turned in sleeping below the winnower.<br/>23.10.16 next morning we were told we were to carry our blankets and everything including the cooks gear as we wouldn't have our transport which had left yesterday on a two days trip. our march was supposed to be 7 miles. We set out at 10 and marched on the main road to Amiens. Very foggy and a bit cool and very stiff work. However we only had to go about 5 miles and stopped there. The 3rd Brigade was on the move and all had to be conveyed in motor buses. Mostly french buses and they all went well and we had a small bus in which 17 of us squeezed in with out gear and a bike. The pace was fine and we went up some stiff hills and through the outskirts of the town of Amiens. It was a very cramped ride and I was glad to get out and stretch myself. We arrived at 6.30 at Buire-sur-Corbie and I was left with two others in charge of the bikes and gear white the rest went to find the billets. This place is considerably behind the line. Our billet was a rotten cramped hole and I was very hungry so I bought some buns and had a good meal and as we  were having it the old lady who are very kind people asked us inside and we met an English R.A.M.C man &amp; chatted awhile. We got the old lady to let us sleep on the floor of the kitchen and after a hot wine went to bed at 9 and slept very comfortably.<br/>24.10.16 Up at 6 and were to move at 8 &amp; had some hot coffee and then a wash and breakfast. It rained at night and everything was very sloppy. We waited about until 10 and then set out with packs the transport carrying our blankets. Rained all the way but not very heavy and marched on to Belancourt and through Meaulte and on to near Fricourt. Slush all the way and very heavy where we are camped. Arrived about 2 and had some tea and afterwards some stew. Our place is a canvas covered humpy pretty cramped and cold. However, we covered the ground with our ground sheets and slept at 7 until next morning at six. The S.M. called and said we might have to move after midnight but luckily we didn't. The ground all round the hills here are covered with men and I think Bapaume is our objective. Woke at 6 and this morning was fairly fine and dozens of plans were early up.<br/>25.10.16 Breakfast at 7 with porridge and bacon and then</p>