<p class="page" id="a6623054">[Page 54]</p>
<p>an hour afterwards they got hell. German artillery made a bad mess of their trenches and and the whole line was covered in a pall of smoke. Of course we replied and our damage to them is unknown but many of our men were brought back in stretchers. We had a fatigue party of infantry in the morning but work was very hard on account of the wet and about 11 it began to rain again and we had to knock off work. In the afternoon we were put on different jobs and I was cutting galvanised iron. Result more blisters. A 6 inch naval gun was tried several times in the day preparatory to the big advance. Men having been going up all day to the firing line with stretchers &ndash; cylinders of gas and accoutrements. No papers, letters or parcels are allowed either to come in or go out and great things are expected shortly. The bombardment was supposed to be on last night but it was evidently too wet. All the  inhabitants of the villages are allowed to go from one town to another only as long as their passes hold out. We had a consignment of comforts yesterday tobacco, cigarettes etc and my issue which was  all drawn for was 3 cakes of chocolates a piece of soap and a packet of Capstan cigarettes. I exchanged the soap and cigarettes for chocolates. Daly had to carry material to the trenches last night and got back late. Also an issue of 3 magazines. Went over to Croix Marechal to get tin snips and very interesting redoubt. Graveyard (English) there.<br/>28.6.16 Mess orderlies to-day and were up pretty early. No work and we are staying in our dugouts as it is still raining a little and sky very overcast. Rained a bit during the day and we did nothing till about 3.30 when we cracked up some stones to make mortar for a machine gun emplacement. About 2000 gas cylinders are said to have gone up the line and some have been used these last two nights. Bombardment started about 9 and worked round from Armentiers to our guns when most of them started and created a horrible din (about 12). of course Fritz replied and shells were lobbing all round us but I slept through most of it thank goodness. it was mot impressive and doesn't bear</p>