<p class="page" id="a6623058">[Page 58]</p>
<p>8.7.16 A bit of square and diagonal lashing &amp; then we went to construct two bays of a trestle pier. Hard work and knocked off for dinner at 10 to 12 and when we went in it was rumoured that we were to leave in half an hours time. However at 1 parade we brought out all our gear and were told to fall in again at 2.30 in marching order ready to move off at 3. We did so and after a bit of fuss we moved off at 3.25 with all our gear including 2 pontoons 5 tool carts and Q.M.S. impediments. We marched until 10 to 7 and them put up for the night at a farm somewhere near Bailleul. Fair billet of straw but I bunked outside under a fowl roost in an old waggon. Things were pretty muddled but we got plenty good tucker in the end and after a wash I turned in and slept well until about 6. A lot were crippled with corns, blisters and sox feet especially Daly who grumbled unceasingly<br/>9.7.16 Sunday although it didn't appear a bit like it except for beautiful weather and bells chiming in the distance in the village. Reveille at 7 Breakfast at 7.45 &amp; marching order at 9 when we all took off our packs and had a foot examination. Fortunately I have felt first rate right through. Daly had to go to Hospital with a bunion or something which had to be cut out. Waited about until 12and after a hasty dinner set off again at about 1 o'clock presumably for a long march. Splendid country very much used for hop growing which were on trellises about 30 ft high. Country lanes very pretty. Many aeroplanes about and a monoplane as well as our usual biplanes destination unknown but now I suspect Ypres and rumour has suggested the Somme, England, &amp; Australia as well as Merris &amp; Strazeele for a rest. We took an exceedingly long way round perhaps by order but I suspect that our interpreter &amp; Major Savage lost themselves occasionally. Arrived somewhere about 6.30 and got a good tea as I was hungry and also a bonza beer and milk. more sore feet and several had to ride in the wagons. Very slow on the way as we had to wait for other companies. Higgins seems to have had a quarrel with the others and after having tea with his section afterwards rode off to town. Got a chronicle last night (April 22nd) Hilly country here and just over the ridge are our balloons and apparently the firing lines. Extremely beautiful here if I could only find time to look round. Supposed to be a train journey tomorrow afternoon perhaps to Ypres. Turned in early and had a good sleep<br/>10.7.16 Didn't get up till reveille at 7 and after breakfast at 9 we all fell in and put our kits handy and then were told we were to go for a route march to keep us occupied. We marched to Mont des Chats about 2 miles</p>