<p class="page" id="a6623065">[Page 65]</p>
<p>by a counterstroke at this hour when vitality is at its lowest. However nothing happened which I thought was what might come to pass as the artillery hadn't been active enough although shells were dropping continuously although not close to us. We returned soon afterwards to work at about 4 and just before dawn the Germans began bombarding us and we got a hot time especially from the enfilading whizz-bangs which fell all round our parapets. You could hardly hear the gun fire a good way back when there would be a whizz followed immediately by an explosion which are combined to shake our nerves. orders were frequently passed up and down asking for casualties and a few got hit. The shells were exploding every where and just behind our parapet. Tonki8n worked with Dunstan and was assisted by Higginbottom at one time of the night. At 6.15 we were ordered to take up our shovels and file out and of course I thought we were leaving for good and gave an infantryman my water-bottle and afterwards when I was thirsty and asked another one of the same mob for water I was curtly refused. We retired into the support trench only about 20 yards behind and lay down dead tired in the wet trench and got some sleep. A puny German gun was harassing the trench on our left with whizz-bang shrapnel and we could hear them flying over and bursting with a puff and buzz of bullets. Got a fairly disturbed sleep until about 1 when I got up and secured some bully beef and biscuits. Set to work again at 3.30 and were intermittently shelled until 7.45 when we retired to our hedge and got a fairly decent tea and some mail including a Chronicle. The valley behind us was heavily bombarded by big shells as there was a battery there an a machine gun which was harassing the Germans. Later gas and tear shells were used and we were continually waking up to put on our helmets. However, no damage done. <strike>At 8.15</strike><br/>22.7.16 At 8.15 after a meal we all travelled home to Albert outside in our field and had a good breakfast. We travelled over the battlefield and it was all torn and scarred with shells with equipment and rifles lying about and here and there gruesome sights. After breakfast we went down and had a good bath and then a rest vainly hoping we were to have a spell. Dinner about 1 P.M. After another rest in the afternoon we were ordered to go out again at 6 P.M. which we did in our pontoon wagons. This time skirting well round to our left on the way to Gordons Dump through the wood. On the right of he dump is a fairly high plateau and under its bank we took up our positions and made a beginning on our dugout. Soon we got a pick and shovel each and had previously been told in the afternoon that our work was to hop out and dig a communication trench to the German trench the infantry were to take. We marched up to the support trench after a certain amount of confusion and losing ourselves and  were there to wait until the infantry had got their advance and then were to do our bit. At about 1 P.M. we started our advance.</p>