<p class="page" id="a6623077">[Page 77]</p>
<p>I was right ahead with Lieutenant Hooper and Bolton our own O.C. as he asked  for a sapper to go with him and all the rest were infantry. Hooper led the way and I followed crawling and keeping as close as possible as we were were told it was very unhealthy and it was. At length we came to the end of our position in a shell hole and started working for dear life. The Germans were greatly alarmed when they spotted us as they soon began to get it hot and bombs ad all sorts of shells came over happily most of them falling too long and there was a constant crackle of rifle fire. We were only about 40 yards from their trenches and later on Hooper went back and I was told to keep a keen look out on the left which I did as well as watched the infantry's work. We had a strong covering party on our front but none on the end of our sap. Worked hard at full pressure until about 4 when I was only too glad to sit in the bottom of he trench and rest. I had got down a good depth and couldn't see over the top and so had the infantry on both sides but further on the infantry had made very shallow trenches and must have loafed. I was the only sapper with the party and the rest were digging further back.<br/>18.8.16 Had a cigarette carefully guarded from Fritz's watchful eye and enjoyed it immensely. Bombs were rapidly passed up until we had enough and a little further back a machine gun was brought up. It was very misty with low clouds and later on when observers had been posted Fritz came right up to the end of our trench and inspected it covered by the mist so that we couldn't shoot and we thought an attack very likely. Hooper was killed by a rifle shot and a man near me on the top of the trench gave a queer cry and fell over and died soon after. Another man was badly wounded and no stretcher bearers could be obtained at all. Things quietened a little and I made my way out to join the unit meeting an order to that effect about half way down and later joined MacNamara the rest having gone home. This at about 6.30. We made our way out and got lost in the mad series of tangled trenches and shell holes but at length were told where to go by a machine gun party in reserve. We found a man looking after a wounded companion and waiting in vain for stretchers as the trenches were much too narrow and awful to go through. We got a stretcher and carried him some distance and were very fatigued and then came back homewards to the dump. Luckily we met some of our men who had to return to get their equipment and reminded us. We all walked together and came to the road a little way up which we got some lovely coffee free although it wasn't much. We then saw a Canadian Engineers wagon and gratefully got up where we were bumped about towards home utterly fagged out.</p>