<p class="page" id="a6623079">[Page 79]</p>
<p>The company had notice to be ready at 5 and this time again on account of our all day work I was not able to go out. I wonder if they think I'm a bit "nervy". If so they are mistaken and next time I shall take care to "do my bit" with the section. Rumour has it they may be out 9 days. had a good wash and shave in about &frac34; of a quart of water and then rested and wrote this up.<br/>21.8.16 They all got back safely and had to dig a communication trench well behind the firing line. I had a good nights sleep and got up when the mob returned at 6.30 and  I got breakfast and took things easy on our bunks. it turned out a lovely day a little cold so I got pipe and magazine and sat out on the dugout front an enjoyed it but presently I was somewhat startled and surprised to see Taubes coming over as previously a Taube anywhere was remarkable. About 9 came over and of course our planes were mostly conspicuous by their absence but one engagement took place but was soon given up. Our Archies engaged them but no damage was done. Got Mac dinner and in the afternoon lay down as it was rumoured we were all to go out that night. Dinner was late and soon after we were ordered to get tea at 3.30 and to fall in as soon afterwards as possible. Fell in and marched off at 4.15 and then followed one of the most awful nights I have ever thought of. We entered the communication trench just outside Pozieres where I had gone the afternoon before and we travelled through a very narrow and low trench with wood bars overhead and wires galore to trip over. Previously, we arrived in Sausage Gully just as the guns there were opening up and we had to go round. Just as we got in front of them they opened up and the din was awful. There are about 50 guns there 18 pounders and our ears were tingling until we could hardly hear. They fired for about 10 minutes  and then slowed and we went on. Just outside Pozieres we entered the communication trench to the front and all along there was a horrible stench and emaciated forms were seen in places. Then shells began to fall round about and things were getting warm. The trench seemed interminably long and at last we go up to the front trench but not near our work. Some shells were coming over and soon after  the bombardment of the trenches to b taken was commenced. The row was hellish and the Germans realising our intentions started to bombard our lines to prevent supports moving up and if possible to prevent our attack. They didn't appear to have too many guns but what they did have were wonderfully accurate and were distinctly heard sweeping up &amp; down this portion</p>