<p class="page" id="a6623060">[Page 60]</p>
<p>The next station to Godewaersvelde east is Poperinghe which is over the border in Belgium. Extremely pretty country passing through and everything very fresh. Our first station was Hazebrouck before  mentioned a big city but we were just on the entrance and waited about 15 minutes to be shunted on to the other line. We saw two german prisoners (officers) very typical in a train just opposite us under guard and they were given a 2nd class carriage and a good deal of curiosity. After we moved out we had tea of bread and jam and water and went on to Berguette which is a coal mining district and also further on to <strike>Hiais</strike> a fair sized town Briar. The next big town was St Pol where we branched off again. We saw some curious looking affairs apparently pyramidal gun emplacements used a good while ago. On to Frevent and then to Doullens where we arrived at 10.30. On the way a funny incident occurred. Two chaps hopped off to a near by Estaminet  pursued by the guard and in the meantime the train went off. The guard turned up the next day and the two men the day after and have been under arrest ever since.<br/>12.7.16 About half an hour and we set off through a seemingly deserted city with every light out or shaded. out through the town and up a hill about 1 &frac12; miles while we waited for our transport to overtake us and we welcomed the rest and were very hungry and very little to eat. Then we set out again and marched and marched and marched. A few, - a comparative few got knocked up and had to ride on the wagons. We had a few spells on the road and were very glad of them too. We continuously took the turning to the right and I made sure we were going in a circle but anyway we went miles out of our track. It was daybreak when we got near our destination and it took a good while for us to find our village but we eventually did and camped in an open paddock and had breakfast. This place was Halloy-y-Partois. We arrived at 7.30 and had to move on again at 10.30. In the meantime I had a good wash and washed my feet to ease them and bustled round getting things straight. We marched on again and after taking a roundabout way arrived here at 1 o'clock at Naours and found our billets and after a good meal went straight to bed and slept without  tea till next morning and had a good sleep the first for some time.<br/>13.7.16 Got a chronicle to-day (May 16). Short parade at 9 o'clock and then went down the village for a look round. Saw a steam portable engine cutting wood logs on a sliding bench and then went to tobacconists and ventilated our French and got the females address. Marie Louise somebody. Went to an Estaminet and were talking of our exploits and got into hot water next day through it. Marie Louise seems a gentle docile creature while the "barmaid" is more shrewd. At 10 o'clock we went to see the celebrated caves. &frac12; franc admission. Really an ancient chalk mine and was used by refugees a long time ago. There are numerous fossils and a chapel right in the middle and provision for horses while one part contained over 400 rooms about 16 x 14 feet. It has several exits and chimneys well concealed and varies to 100 feet under ground. The whole is quarried in the side of</p>