<p class="page" id="a6623095">[Page 95]</p>
<p>up the mud and generally improving the roads amid a constant drizzle of rain and got very wet mud up to the boot tops. Seemed an endless job and as fast as we scooped fresh mud came in. Two whizz bangs came over the first landing about 50 yds from the road where we were working and sending up a big volume of mud and dirt which fell heavily on us. The next one fell just in front of one of the big howitzers without doing any damage. We had some bread and cheese which we had brought with us at 12 and got to work again. It came out quite fine and numerous planes were up and a few of Fritz's and some fights took place. artillery pretty active and it is wonderful the number of big howitzers there are quite close to the line. Some of them 9.2 alongside the little 4.5. left off at 2 and got home about 3 and had a good brush up and wash before tea. Our work was on the road at Delville Wood above Longueval and only about 1 &frac12; miles from the line. Nevertheless motor lorries come right up when the roads are passable. After tea there was a rum issue after which I went to bed and had just got settled when the S.M. came round to Kemp telling him it was our turn to take a note to B.H.Q. I had to get out probably because I was living next door and stumble through all the slush and went a little beyond out of my way but soon came back and found it and got home after an hour and went straight to sleep.<br/>3.11.16 breakfast in bed and out to the same job again at 7.45. Went to the R.F. dump for an axe and then cut some timber for logging the road. Morning passed slowly with numerous shells flying about from Fritz and great artillery activity. It was fairly fine all day and plenty of aerial activity on both sides. Got a parcel of 1 pr socks and some toffee from N.A.R. last night. Saw the part of a tanks interior containing the engine 6 cylinder about 105 H.P. and saw the Hotchkiss 6 P.R. gun. In the dinner hour I went through Delville Wood in which were numerous dead bodies even yet and numberless chaotic shell holes. One part us pretty high and overlooks through a valley the lines apparently quite close about 1 &frac12; miles and beyond about 4 miles could be plainly seen the factory chimneys and tower of Bapaume and on the  left the houses on the slope. Shells could be plainly seen bursting in the lines. Carried on in the afternoon and <strike>saw</strike> finished the corduroying job and came home at 3.30 leaving the borrowed axe on the way. had tea and got clean and came early to bed and wrote this up. Feet pretty sore and boots giving way and will be mighty glad when we get out of here. Bed at 8.30<br/>4.11.16 Same work again to-day &amp; I did logging on the road. 3 axes from R.E. Dump. Home at 2.30 and had a clean up before tea. Paid to-night. Section Clerk went in to canteen this morning. A large party of Pioneers etc working on tramway in Delville Wood which gives a clear view to Bapaume. Sure enough it was shelled this morning by 2 guns sending over about 10 H.E. shells. No casualties. Another little argument with Dare. Captured ridge this morning and 21st going over to-morrow. Rumour of fall of Peronne &amp; Lemburg &amp; naval Battle.</p>