<p class="page" id="a6623083">[Page 83]</p>
<p>street. We hurried at first, but later on settled down to a slower pace as we had plenty of time. The shops were quite large and there was a sports depot and shops selling all commercial gear. McNamara and Phillips went out on their own and we presently met him with 3 big rounds of bread, a piece of celery a sweet melon and all sorts of miscellaneous gear under his arms. I purchased a bonny and useful torch for 7 &frac12; francs, cigars, chocolate, matches, and little details and wended my way homewards with 5 francs left. We had a glass of fine beer near the railway station and then got on board ready for moving off. There were four 3rd class carriages 6 in a compartment holding eight and were very comfortable considering and each carriage contained a lavatory. Unfortunately I was caught for train guard and was one of 12 of our section but the duties weren't arduous. The first stop I went into the guards van and there saw the train orders. We were to leave at 1.20 arriving at Hazebrouck at 5.30 but the train wasn't ordered to proceed any further and we thought we were to get out there and march to Armentiers. but when we arrived we shunted back again and resumed our old way towards Godenwaersvelde where we thought we might go back to Sailly again but went straight on and we knew we were going to the Ypres salient. We passed Poperinghe over the border and on to Proven where we arrived at 9 P.M. our destination. We soon got unloaded and we heard we had a 4 mile march although we heard it was 14. However, we set off and marched on and on through Poperinghe until we felt very tired. At length is appeared we had lost our way so we halted while our gallant major reconnoitred both ways up the road. An reconnoitring party consisting of Dowling and Corp Williams had gone on the day before to get our billets but they lost the way also. We sat down in the cold and waited for about an hour until the major came back unsuccessful and ordered us to bivouac for the night. I got in the lee of a stock of hay and turned in at 2 in the morning. It rained just before daylight and our blankets got wet.<br/>27.8.16 Sunday. Reveille at 6.30 and breakfast and afterwards got everything ready and marched off at 9 finding our billets were only 1 &frac12; miles away and we had taken the wrong turning. Soon arrived in a tent enclosure surrounded by trees about 8 miles from the firing line and we could see the flares going up but everything was very quiet on this front except for occasional mining. Shells come right over here occasionally and aeroplane bombs fall sometimes. After dinner rested a while and at 4 o'clock took leave to Poperinghe intending if possible to go to the big church or cathedral but when we got there there was no service. The town is very big and there are numerous shops where one can get anything wanted. There are also two fine soldiers homes one a military and another Talbot House a private with washing accommodation and a lovely garden at the rear. Church of England service at 6.30 and quite 50 in the pretty little chapel above with an organ but the service was uninspiring. There is also a cinema and pianos. Shrapnel is visible on</p>