<p class="page" id="a6623094">[Page 94]</p>
<p>The bikes got into trouble straight away and were bogged and left behind and we came on through Mametz wood and village all smashed up and eventually to Montauban where we are camped about a mile opposite the wood. The roads were awful and mud ankle deep in spite of working parties all along the road and we were held up all the way by transport of all kinds which had great difficulty in getting through. We only came about 5 miles but didn't arrive until about 1 P.M. This place was used by other men and there are remains of a camp about. I reconnoitred and found two places choosing the second which is a sand bag dug out and made it a bit higher and covered in the roof with Malthoid and are now fairly comfortable. I had intended asking Irvine to share it but he was in with our A.M.C. man so I asked Ingram at last as he couldn't find a place. The bikes began to turn up covered in mud and utterly unpushable. The transport also arrived so I helped unload and then retired to our dugout and had some biscuits and cheese. It began to rain then fairly heavily and we discovered some leaks which had to be stopped temporarily. A lot of the others got flooded out and wandered about seeking fresh places unsuccessfully. The got very wet and miserable but at last found shakedown for the night. Stew for tea at 4 o'clock and soon after went to bed and were fairly comfortable although we had to get up once to stop a leak. Had to do an hours guard from 12 to 1 to keep guard for gas and despatch riders.<br/>31.10.16 Woke about 6.30 but had breakfast in bed and arose about 8 o'clock and got things mobile. Then waited happenings. Second division also came up last night and to-day the sun is shining and looks clear. We are camped just below the big guns 6" and now here near the 3" yet. About 8.30 went up the road beside two 6" guns and dug some drains for the road. Carried on at two o'clock and got home about 4.30 to tea. Quite a fine day and numerous aeroplanes up and balloons. Some German prisoners looking very dejected came along in the afternoon. (About 20) Early to bed and noticed some fine searchlights playing presumably on the look out for enemy planes.<br/>1.11.16 Up at 7 and off to the same work. In the afternoon found a letter from Bill and 9 letters in a redirected packet addressed to the Pioneers. Carried on in the afternoon and it drizzled a good deal. Some Taubes came over and apparently got back safely. One 6" gun in action quite close to us during the later afternoon and Division took their guns up and left them in position. Early to bed and wrote this up and finished reading the letters. Think there is an attack on to-night as a short sharp bombardment is just over towards Bapaume.<br/>2.11.16 Had breakfast in bed and off to the job at 7.45 taking a scoop and broom as well as the shovel. A good long walk and came to the road just above Delville Wood which is absolutely pitted with shell holes and all the trees have shrapnel sticking in them. Soon got to the desolate region and here everything was dead &amp; only a few big howitzers about. Pretty close to the line here. We set to work scooping</p>