<p class="page" id="a6623101">[Page 101]</p>
<p>After an interminable wait during which I met F.B. Jose. The dentist seemed very sorry and told me all the gear was at Becordel and told me to return and get a recommendation from the doctor of the 3rd Fd Amb. When I got back it was after 12 and the doctors were away so I came back through all the mud to dinner at about 1 P.M. rested and returned at 2.20 and got my recommendation after sarcastic remarks by the doctor on the red tape. Returned to 14th and after about 3 seconds parley had a wounded docket made out and was told to move all my gear in No 3 hut and wait! Of course I had none so hurried back and rolled my blankets and filled my haversack with some food, tooth brush, and towel, hoping I wouldn't be away long which I surmised on the conversation with the sergeant. Arrived about 4 and was told to sit down and wait for a wagon. Meanwhile much to my astonishment being treated to lovely hot cocoa and sandwiches of bully and cigarettes. All sorts of cases some pretty bad with pneumonia, Bronchitis etc. Waited on until about 8.30 and then the whole party about 15 set off with a hurricane lamp to the railhead. Ushered into a hut labelled walking cases and there treated to more coffee with sandwiches of sardines, rabbit and jam being told we would probably catch a train in an hour's time. Cigarettes were again abundant. Told we would be late getting away so got two blankets of which there appeared to be an abundant supply and made myself as comfortable as possible. We were in a round hut supplied with a stove &amp; also a brazier but I was very uncomfortable as my feet were wet an I could feel the mud squelching. Some more cases came in and were treated to hot rum and coffee and more eatables. Destination was discussed Amiens and Etaples being probables. Previously when I came home for my gear I consulted the S.M. &amp; Bolton as to whether I should go as we are to go into the trenches almost immediately &amp; I decided when I heard the rumoured far off destinations to hop off secretly if we passed Albert. However about 12 a train came in and we boarded her. Two carriages or guards vans and we sat as well as we could &amp; had plenty of blankets. Not very cold. Train slowly travelled to Becordel about 6 miles where we got out and walked a short distance to a casualty receiving station.<br/>13.12.16 5th &amp; 15th Fd Ambulance there and heard they had bombs dropped on them a couple of nights previously. Entered a well lit spacious tent with cheerful looking braziers and seats where we rested and received more cocoa &amp; sandwiches and cigarettes. Then we had our tickets examined and ours were marked M.O.S. so we retired with our gear to an outside waiting tent receiving a good pair of dry sox previously. Here we waited about &frac12; an hour and then came back and were told to make ourselves as comfortable as possible for some time. No blankets and some distance from the fire. I tried to sleep but only partially succeeded as it was cold and about 4 A.M. About 7.30 not coffee, bread, jam and butter were brought in of which I only got some dry bread so I made some toast. later got some cocoa and nice biscuits. Looked a promising day and all the rest barring us were sent out to C.C.S &amp; C.R.S. about 9 o'clock. Then we were shown where to go up on the hill about 400 yards away. Arrived and more by good luck than otherwise went straight to the dentist where he cemented my tooth very roughly &amp; then told me to evacuate which I did being shown the proper road. However, I decided on a holiday so followed the line to Meaulte leaving my baggage at a crossing on the way. Big additions everywhere and a big sawmill where German prisoners were mostly working very happily. Went down the main street and purchased a paper, battery &amp; globe, chocolate, candles and on my way back coffee &amp; 2 buns. 1 o'clock so started to walk back only getting a short ride to Mametz. On to Montauban feet feeling very tired where I took the wrong turning arriving at cross roads near light railway in gully &amp;  thence home. Section not gone out yet and didn't work to-day. Felt very fatigued &amp;  after tea had a good wash in dugout &amp;  bathed feet afterwards oiling them. Then read papers &amp;  wrote this before bed.</p>