 hostile merchant steamers. Also we are no match for superior numbers. Japan's fleet leads the list, then the Allied squadron & the English Australian fleet. If we are to believe the English reports, the prospect is not a rosy one. There is nothing left of our Fleet, it is completely defeated, 19 ships are sunk & even we, "Scharnhorst" & "Gneisnau", have been badly damaged after an action with the English ships "Minotaur" & "Hampshire". We cruise about, however, still unhurt. In Honilulu 37 war volunteers, almost all German Americans, had crept on board, & did not appear until at sea. On the same evening, 6th Sept. the "Nurnberg" from somewhere near Palmyra Island, left us to destroy the English cable station. (7) On 7th Sept. we arrived at the (8) islands, where the "Nurnberg" joined us again. She was completely successful in destroying the station.The buildings belonging to it were blown up, and the cable cut & towed to sea. We ascertained further that hostile forces were in Apia. After [coaling?] we immediately left with the "Gneisnau". On 10th Sept. we crossed the Equator. This was a little holiday, for the baptism was carried out with its festivities. As we proceed[?] on 14th Sept. at daybreak to attack Apia, we were disappointed. The enemy had already left Apia on 29th August & had occupied it with 800 men. There had been 9 warships & 2 transports. I learnt this from 2 Germans who had come on board. We were very much annoyed, as we had done nothing so far. From Apia we proceeded East & only put in at the island of (9) for a moment on 17th Sept. to meet a steamer. On 21st Sept. we completed our supply of coal to some extent at the French Society Islands, (10) & procured some fresh meat, which we had on the following Sunday. This was, indeed, a delicacy for us. as our canteen had given out some days previous[ly?]. On the following day we appeared off the French Island of Tahiti with the town of Papeete. Here we waited to provide ourselves with coal and provisions, & first of all sent a boat ashore. We were, however, doomed to disappointment. A German steamer lay in the harbour & a French gunboat before it. The latter suddenly hoisted her colours & we were fired upon by the 3 forts on land. We did not, however, let them wait long for an answer & opened fire. We fired quite slowly, for every shot was to hit, & those from the shore fell short. It was not long before we had silenced the forts. The French gunboat received 2 hits on the water-line & then sank. Further the yard were was destroyed & the coal store set on fire. Since there was nothing more to get we steamed away (11). In general, we are not living badly now. We have gradually got used to everything. On 2nd Oct. we steamed away (12) steering a course for the (13) islands, where we arrived to-day, 12th Oct. Here. the "Dresden" joined us. Perhaps we may yet have a fight with 4 English cruisers, for they followed the "Dresden". The "Leipsig" is also to join us, the Japanese cruiser "Idzumo" being on her track. Well, let them come, we shall have something to tell them about. We are to take in a lot more provisions, fresh meat, & potatoes here. We don't yet know where we are now to go. 
 ---------- 
 (1)"Scharnhorst" & Gneisnau" left Nagasaki 28 June. Arrived Caroline Is. 7. July. 
 (2) "Nurnberg" left San Francisco 21 July for Asiatic Station. Left Honilulu 27 July. 
 (3)This might be Providence or Brown atoll. Note how slowly ships are proceeding. 
 (4) "Nurnberg" arrived "Honilulu 1. Sept. Left 2.Sept. (2nd visit) 
 (5) Possibly another of the Marshall Islands. 
 (6) This may have been a meeting at Sea. (7) At Fanning[?] Island. 
 (8) Apparently Christmas Island. (9) Palmerston or Suwarrow[?]. (10) At Bora Boar Island. 
 (11) A lbit appears to have been left our here by the Censor. 
 (12) From the Marquesas Islands. (13) Easter Island. 