
May 8121.About 9 last night a shelling about the A.D.S. and big iron in place of the sensitive "daisy-cutters":  the closest by the old bandstand arrangement where the salvage is dumped:  the concussion in the cellars as though the world had broken.  A yard from the edge of its hole, one of our limbers, and beyond earth, not a scratch on it:  in the ripped off tarpolin a dead sparrow.  In a half hour he kept us listening and waiting for the hit on the building.
Turned in and slept till very early this morning:  then a long laying awake, expecting and listening for the bursts:  just as a great bombardment opened up about the line, our issue arrived - long salvoes of gas shells by the embankment.
Midday, and still the noise of guns:  on the left - probably about Kemmel, heavy and consistent rolling.
This morning gave the promise of a full sun day, but a breeze has taken half the warmth from the sun.
Yesterday morning the Boche was expected to attack here:  his infantry, massed behind his lines, were got into by the Artillery, and the attack came to nothing.  Today trenches being dug by the orchard hedge.
May 8, 9122.Mail:  from C.W. Beaumonts "The Oracle of Colour" and "Memories of Childhood" - the last the first of a Green Pastures Series of cheap books from the Morland Press.  Two announcements of Press books - "New Paths" an illustrated annual - with a limited edition:  all sold, pencilled by limited edition prospectus, ordinary copies 7/6, edited by C.L.B. and M.T.H. Sadler - the author of "Hyssop" and translation of "Belgium's Agony", "Raptures" by W. H. Davies, the other Press book, probably the third of the Georgian Poet Series.  Borrowed 20 F. from Les and wrote for it.
Of the 40 contributors to "New Paths" only 16 well recognised by self.
An afternoon spent playing golf - with hockey sticks - in the sun with Les, a game interrupted by the landing by our links of a shell that had lost its way.
May 9123.Turned in reading Freeman's "Memories of Childhood", a dainty collection of pieces of real charm, "Childhood Calls", "The Fire" - the most beautiful of all - "The Swing", "Fear" and "When Childhood Died" all full of old child memories made perfect by compleat recalling.
