 [Page 39] 
 April 12 48. At Amiens. Dinner just outside Amiens by the south of the Cathedral, with mean little minds some have whispered of shells landing in the building, but I think it is still a lie:  God knows how long though this will be &ndash; even while we were there a great shell burst between it and us, and for half an hour several guns were all the while trained on the City. 
 One Boche plane was brought down &ndash; from quite 8000 feet a long uninterrupted nose dive, our three planes spiralling above him. 
 Marching through &ndash; only three dead horses by the boulevard, and a lovely white-faced girl sitting on a seat loaded with two sheeted bundles, all the sorrow of the city on her face. 
 Since midday we've been by a narrow stream:  a fair number were in swimming, but lovely as the day is and warm the sun, the dirty mud of the bank is horrible. 
 The 2nd Field have entrained and gone. 
 Last night a big number of the 2nd Batt. knocked here, about 12 killed from bombs.  Evening:  In the train, trucks.  The 2nd Batt. are an unlucky crowd.  At B.B. Corner bombs lost them over 80:  and last night bombs here in Amiens, and shells lost them 12 dead, and 40 wounded. 
 In Train just out saw Vim Colours:  but he'd gone on by an earlier train with B. Coy.  Must look him up. 
 Basil B. brings cutting to truck of 2nd Lieut Alan Waugh being reported missing:  he was engaged to a daughter of W.W. Jacobs. 
 Back to Flanders! 
 April 13 49. In the train:  past Hazebruck, all the little villages passed in daylight show shell and bomb wreaking:  and looking down through long roads, thin lines and groups of refugees.  Passing one little farmhouse by the line, through the open door and window an old woman and a girl were sorting and tying bundles:  bomb holes were new in their fields. 
 Once we passed the wreakage of a truck of a Tommy troop train, two hundred yards further along, lying stripped to the waist, a splendidly built Tommy lay half over a stream washing. 
 50. For a long while last night. Boche planes dropping bombs &ndash; about 50 dropped &ndash; by the line and station held up our going.  The Artillery were in the station:  and just as we'd entrained saw amongst them young Street of the Grammar.  I saw him last awaiting the tram in College St., two back his year &ndash; yesterday he had some little more. 
