 [Page 97] 
 May 9 Come over, come over the deepening river, Come over again the dark torrent of years. &hellip; Come back to the time when time brought no burden, And love was unconscious knowing not love. 
 The mornings far too full of sun to spend writing:  and today some time we leave here &ndash; handing over to either the French or the English, B. Sect. probably to Borre, A. back in reserve to H.Q. 
 124. A yarning at dinner of ways &amp; means of living "Apres la Guerre" without working.  Les favours a dependence on a gun, and a life of a primitive:  Norm suggests going to Burns Phillips and asking for an Island job, "But the bastards might expect you to work!" &ndash; and he changes his hopes.  Together with Buck, he's for running a Prophelactic [?] Depot &ndash; at the Railway, King St. and the Quay:  so followed loud talking of side lines, but the idea is good &ndash; good to be taken up by the Government.  Certainly it is one of the most plausible methods of combating V.D. 
 A bonser morning, spent walking up and down in the sun, by one of the paths in front of the A.D.S., scheming for the production in Sydney of a series of representative cheap books &ndash; of prose and poetry.  So far nothing in this line has yet been attempted. 
 May 9 Tyrrel would be the man to interest, and perhaps Adams of the Bulletin.  Certainly an annual &ndash; after the "Melba Gift Book" style of the year's most representative clippings of prose and poetry &ndash; with half a dozen plates of The Society of Artists' most suitable exhibits would in a very short time come to take a high place in a collection of Australian Literature. 
 125. An afternoon spent basking like a lizard in the sun, half stripped on the wall by the orchard. 
 It is a long while since we have heard of any of America's war paint:  a promise was that by January a great school of planes would be ready, and for the spring her fighting men.  Today an Inf. chap of the 6th Batt. &ndash; a bar M.M. spoke of some French spoken opinions.  It is over a year since the Americans declared war &ndash; now they profess a readiness early in 1919.  Truly they are "hustlers".  Move off at 6. 
 Today the monestary of Mont des Cats shelled. 
 176. Lethaby's Architecture:  Forms are nothing in themselves, they are only envelopes of the spirit of Architecture.  The Greeks first freed the spirit of Beauty from the hieratic:  Architecture was purged of terror:  they aimed at what was gracious and lovely. 
