
May 2, 3104.This morning late, to Caestre villiage with Nanc:  from our gates to the church the road is straight and tree flanked:  at the centre of the villiage it breaks to the right, and throws the church tower to occupy the centre place between the end of the trees.  Today the sun in a grey blue sky made a shadow under the trees and a warmth in the air.
Evening - and another day of no gassed through:  but for occasional salvoes from the hedge guns, and one sudden salvo from the Boche, the day has been quiet.
Tonight at 9 there's a late supper - and a great white and blue primitively decorated vase in the centre of the table carries a small garden's yield of white and red double tulips.
Perugino's "Crucifiction" - a media print, a bottle of Creme de Prunelle, and a bowl of tulips: there are not many rooms here that could offer better.
May 3105.Morning:  There's a bright sun today, and a clearer blue sky.
Late last night our first gas patient through:  one of the R.F.A. lads from one of the nearby Batteries.  He was rather a beautiful animal, and his laugh and grace made him pleasant company.
Three 5th Batt. in early this morning before 9.
106.Evening.All day long a memory that has become an obsession, nothing to relieve the monotony, nothing to clear for any while the mind.
A mail of two home letters, from Mother, Feb. 29 and Betty March 4:  Betty's a dull disappointment, on horrible exercise paper, and uglyer written, and the letter itself as dull and poor as an illiterate:  I'll send her some decent paper from Blighty.
A day of patch-reading:  a few pages of Lethaby's "Architecture", of "Thais" and Keats two odes and the Sphere of April 20.  I'd like to read tonight one of Aristophanes' comedies, or Suetonius.  I'd give a guinea to hear that R.F.A. had of last night, read "The Golden Ass" - to watch him read any of the sun burned Pagan tales.  Instead I've to watch Buck and wait for gas patients.  I'll to Thomas a'Kempis turning in tonight.
Later:  in bed.
"He who only declineth them outwardly and doth not pluck out the root will profit little:  nay, temptation will sooner return to himself in a worse condition."Thomas a'Kempis, Book 1, Chap. 13.
