 [Page 49] 
 April 16, 17 61. One of the "skeleton Batt." in, - for a dose of "something to stop this bloody --!"  We gave him a dose of oil, told him it'd cost him a bottle of cham.! 
 "Well, I wish I knew where it was old man", he says, "but its &ndash; scarce now, I haven't seen a bottle for over a day!" 
 April 17 61.  2 a.m. Till an hour ago a long unbroken night of dressings, about 60 of our Division in, mostly 1st and 4th Battalions. 
 Last night the night of a stunting, of Australians, Scotties, and the French.  It has been a success.  By the Infantry's word the Artillery has been good, and all our objectives have been taken.  But of the tellings of the 4th wounded there are contradictions:  it is evident that at one point of their front the Artillery Barrage was thin, and their casualties heavy.  By report the French hold all their objectives. 
 Early in the evening, the Col. was interrogating two 1st Batt., M. Cummins, 
 "And the French, did you see them?" "Oh the French are going for their lives!" "What?", sudden surprise from the Col. and the answer, surprised at the question &ndash; "Oh, the right way!" 
 April 17 63. Mail yesterday:  from the T.B.C. note and receipt for &pound;2.0.0, and invoice for Frankeau's "Judgment of Valhalla".  Alec Waugh's poems not yet out of press.  Mail out open yesterday. 
 B. Section Bearers up from Billets early last night &ndash; for emergency bearing:  but so far there has been no need for them. 
 64.  10.30 p.m. Still wounded of the 1st Batt. have been coming through:  this morning the Boche counter-attacked, and came a G. 
 Borre shelled!  Another day of almost no sleep, and the promise of a busy night.  Twice during the day for long while he dusted us with H.V. shells and shrapnell.  Shrapnell he seems to favour more of late, black whip tail stuff of terrific explosion. 
 Yesterday evening I made a sketch note of the church of Borre with our lads' graves below.  Today the church struck.  Tower being used as O.P. 
 65. Today's rumour.  The last issue of John Bull, the cover notice reads, 
 "Will England support the Australians." 
 Menu rather good, Breakfast, Cold Chicken &amp; Pork Tea, Salad, Champagne &amp; Bread, Butter &amp; honey &amp; cream. 
