
May 4, 5'Hermodorus'"... For man, who sees only a part of everything, evil is a blessing.  Without doubt, ugliness is ugly and not beautiful:  but if everything was beautiful, everything would not be beautiful."
109.With horrible regularity, all day long the hedge guns have been smashing like sudden hell claps.
110.I saw Father O'Brien again tonight - the first time since our M.D.S. at La Clytte;  last night and the night before in the mood almost deliberately brought on, I'd half started a long letter to him.  I had the thought to write of it all, a compleat confession.
Tonight I talked with him in the hall, and asked him of some book of the essential of the Catholick faith, he gave me "The Faith of The Fathers" by Cardinal Gibbons, and one of M. [R.] H. Benson - "The Religion of the Plain Man".
May 5111.Late in the evening in the Hall a yarning with the C. of E. Padre - Maj. ... a casual talking of all things, of Kitchener he told of his diverting reinforcement troops from the Pinnacle when Gen. Hamilton had urgently called for them.
Abruptly he broke casual talking, and announced his intention of holding early this morning a service:  It was my opportunity, but I did not take it:  he is genuine, and would be good to talk to - but his long and close association with the Military outwardly seems to have imbued him with some of its detestable customs spirit.  For a long while after, I thought the matter out, and meeting him again, almost spoke to him.
This morning I met him after his service:  I should like to have spoken to him, but even if I had last night, still I could not have taken the sacrament.
Perhaps some while in the future I may yarn to Father O'Brien:  I think he would see my position better than any other Padre I've met.
112.Part of Caestre afire from shells at the beginning of last night: a shell somewhere amongst the buildings opposite the church.
A day's Egyptian blue sky - the shell packed tower taking all the colour of the fire, and seen from our gates at the end of the long perspective of black-green trees, a great monolith of rose colour, with wreathings of white-blue mist above it.
A fantasy by Charles Guerin.
