 [Page 61] 
 April 22, 23 supplements from Pears, an open grate, and a mantel, silver candlestick flanked, and loaded, with incense and two friendly ticking clocks.  "A room &ndash; more like a whore's than a man's".  All have our own individual easy chairs, our places at table, our own champagne and liquer glasses.  The room will be spotlessly clean and the talk free of all &ndash; for five minutes:  then glasses innumerable, champagne &amp; sinister liquer glut in the soft lighting of candles.  And there's a war on! and he's shelling us! 
 Mail:  from T.B.C., James Stephens "The Crock of Gold". 
 April 23 80. More shelling has added to the ruin of Caestre:  from there this morning a set of Liquer glasses, and two bottles. 
 Tonight there's expectation of a rush:  today has been busy, and the stunt is for Meteren. 
 An entry omitted.  The day we arrived here, Greenwood of Transport wounded, and this morning Bert Canty. 
 April 24, 25 81.  a.m. To midnight fourty through:  now a slackening at 4 a.m.  A cold clear night, of loud warring:  for a while at midnight we received our shell ration.  Wounded 90&percnt; Machine guns. 
 This evening a sky of rare loveliness:  as though all the rich wonders of the skies had been massed to forget and hide the world's war, and a terrific orchestred gunfire of all our guns trained on Meteren. 
 April 25 82.  1 a.m. A salute to the Landings anniversary of five salvos for the Boche:  about the A.D.S., no casualties. 
 From 4 yesterday morning one long unending line of wounded to the A.D.S. and some terrible wounds:  the attack on Meteren a failure:  and by the Infantries telling, a failure of the staffs.  Last night's long roar &amp; bombardment by rumour to level Meteren, in any case it was a firing that will live in the Boche's memory. 
 Mail yesterday:  from T.B.C. note of "The Crock of Gold" and of Moore's "A Story-Teller's Holiday" still printing. 
 83.  10 a.m. Writing, for the first time in our "Living Room".  The remote and serene beauty of the Medici Print of Perugino's The Crucifixion, 
