 [Page 109] 
 May 14 1. Mourning in the villiage dwells: Hear the shepherds mourning bells! Yester-morn he led To the pasture sheep he led &ndash; Now he sleeps beneath the church-gate dead. 
 Mother to the pasture come, Bid your shepherd-lad go home! Mother, not tonight, At the inn there'll be a fight, At the inn I'll bathe in blood this night. 
 To the inn I go to-night, Shepherds three they seek to fight: And a fourth stands by, And to quell the fight shall try: He must quell it though he live or die. 
 Mourning in the villiage dwells: For the fourth they toll death bells, Mother go thou home, To thy shepherd never come, For he hears not when you call him home. 
 2. Come in my rose, my rose come in, I stay alone here in the inn. Only three poor gypsies play for me, Lonely dancer I to their minstrelsy, Only three poor gypsies play for me, Lonely dancer I to their minstrelsy. 
 3. There was none to match Ke-re-Kes In town or about it; When drafted to battle he was, Girls all cried about it. Tho! &ndash; who cried the most was one oh! His own sweetheart Rosi Panna! His own sweetheart Rosi Panna. 
 Many a bloody battle fought, Glory, honour earning, Dealing death to right and left but for his sweetheart yearning, Tho! while he fought, faithful keeping, Panna ceased to go a weeping, Panna ceased to go a weeping. 
 Glorious scars on breast and forehead, Weary he returned, More than all his wounds, his true heart, For his sweetheart burneth, Tho' but with another man, ah! Gone &ndash; to church is Rosi Panna, Lost to him is Rosi Panna. 
 "Come in my rose" would make a most exquisite Russian Ballet motif.  No. 3 suggests the complementary addition from a letter of Edward II to his son &ndash; from "Royal Letters" (belonging to House). 
 "Also, fair son, we charge you by no means to marry till you return to us, nor without our advice and consent now for any cause either to go to the Duchy, or elsewhere, against our will and command." 
 For an essay on "Wars Sudden Weddings" both these could be worked in. 
 May "To-Day" includes extracts from "Stray Birds", a companion book to "Pawns", "Vengeance of Fionn" and "When". 
