
June 3, 4181.A letter posted to T.B.C. for Venus Pencils, and James Joyce's "Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man".
Early in the day a wind blew clouds across the skies, and all the day they have been passing and passing the sun.  No swimming today and no baking:  the pool deserted.
In the late evening a walk with Ken to St. Marie Cappel, and there in a tiny farmhouse eggs and coffee, Madame a sinister, short and heavy limbed, her sole dressing is a deep print dress and blouse.
Today the Pioneers commence a camouflaging of D.H.Q. Huts, till now half have been half under a battery screen, and the remainder black by the deep hedge have remained innocent of all but rusting paint.
Judging from Aerial photographs, camouflaging - but the most elaborate, is almost useless.
June 4182.Today the winds wasted:  a day of cloudy skies and sudden cold passing winds.  Mail up from the Amb.  Letter from the Commonwealth Bank of 10 standing to my credit, and Francis Edwards' catalogue of "Privately printed editions of Old English Authors", but a cataloguing of books only to be read through:  a letter to her acknowledging the receipt, and asking for the more understood book lists.
8 p.m. and of the instant a sudden drumming of gun fire:  Meteren way probably on our own front.
Posting away Moore's "The Little School" - George C. going to the Amb. tonight was to take it to Tommy, but in the A.D.M.'s office met Capt. Cato, so he censoring it, post it here.
June 5183.(179)A raiding party of 1 N.C.O. and 10 men of the Australians crawled to an enemy post E. of Le Paradis and rushed it.  The enemy garrison of four men put up a strong resistance:  three were killed, the other ran away.  Owing to the quick appearance of strong enemy reinforcements and heavy M.G. fire it was impossible to search the bodies for identification, but a M.G. was brought in and our party returned without casualties.
Such is the official reporting of the Patrol note 179.
184.Tom away to Cassel:  a day of little working - of general lazing.  Mail, two of Bakers Catalogues but rather disappointing.
