
June 14follies she has forgotten.  Two full blooded Flemish girls - heavy limbed and long armed - animals hard from long working, and capable of sudden fiery passion, and two golden little kiddies, grubby and laughing-eyed.
Letter posted to Mother, and cuttings from A.B. May 24, 31, of Meteren stunt and stunts of 4th and 3rd by Villers Brettoneaux.
The 3rd move up from resting to close support, now all things point to an early hard contesting, if only the Left and Right Divisions stand with the 1st.
208.A reading of Brooke:  but a turning to "Oh love", they said, "is King of Kings" - a sudden seeing again of Val - as she told of Chu Chin Chou - and as our happy interchange of literary likes and dislikes passed.  Oh Val tonight I'm hungry to see you again, to laugh and love and foolishly forget warr and maps.  And now happily and freely we'll never know or meet one another.  Val, Val, why did you marry and so soon forget all your grave freedom.
"- And then you suddenly cried and turned away."
June 14, 15"Until perhaps some day when I'll need your help and sympathy", all by heart I know it, and since the night Jake brought it up, full of excitement at a week's strange ending.
Val, Val the memory of you I love and tonight I'm sad for it, oh what a fool I was.
June 15209.A long day ended:  another morning printing for 1st Bde., and in the afternoon a general clearing of the stock of Maps by a distribution about Division.
Mail, direct to H.Q., none from the Ambulance.  From Mrs. Howes a letter on black-edged paper, and a snap of Jack.  He is buried by Hill 60.  From Mother, on a page of Geoff's "stud news and notes", a letter of April 21.
Mother myne behind your arguing against my book buying easily I know how you feel and how you've wondered to put your advice easily, but Dear when I'm unable to see and hear of books that will be my damnation.
And the mail brought books too, from Bakers Symons' "William Blake" and "The Elizabethean Playhouse" - two comely volumes well filled.
