 [Page 115] 
 May 17 balloons clear:  straight down the road they look:  a hundred yards up the road there's a billet of Traffick and more guard:  on their doors the notice, 
 "Any Aussie who thinks he can thump the ivories is invited to hop inside." 
 and in the sun a half a dozen laze in front of the door, through the Brasserie's gates to the D.R. there's all day a fair travelling through, and two hundred yards down the road the Y.M. walls make great backgrounds to resting wayfarers. 
 So there'll be more shelling. 
 142. Yesterday Les received a letter from "Kellysy", written even in his slight lisp and full most funnily of his 'staff' manner, he has not heard from his 'dear wife' since leaving us, a bit rough! 
 143. Breweries and sugar factories far more than Chateaus seem naturally to become our Dressing Stations.  Pozieres A.D.S. was the Warloy Chateau:  Meteren the railway Chateau of Caestre.  Flers were encampments at Longueval, and at Byzantin le Petit, but by Byzantin were the ruins of an old sugar refinery:  Bullecourt A.D.S. was a couple of Dugouts along the side of the road from Veaux to Noreuil.  Hermies were by the 2nd, seemed a collection of old Farmhouses and tents in La Becquiere, Kemmel was an old Brewery and Borre is a late Brewery.  The cellars though are poor and unstrengthened by any additional piers or girders but the old long girders of hardwood &ndash; whole trees roughly squared and spanning over 30 feet, the D.S. is hardly a cellar &ndash; simply the old  black  bulk store, a foot below the ground level.  Kemmel Brewery cellars were good &ndash; strongly strutted and pillared, and deeply buried by the buildings debris, and pilings of sandbags, good finding for the Boche. 
 Writing for the sake of soiling paper:  entry 143 heralds the mood of wasted wonderings &ndash; la Guerre! 
 144. This morning in the D.R. Harry spoke heresy of the lovely Gaby, but Harry's a Methodist.  I told him God had fully realised himself creating her.  That a person should be a consumate work of Art.  H. quite failed to realise. 
 It would be rather an unique experience to take to his home for his appreciation a folio of Beardsley's courtesans or Degas' Ballet Girls:  but he'd close the door &amp; appreciate them as "hot". 
