 [Page 135] 
 May 29, 30, 31 wondering if after all I'll carry on here, for at least a month I'll be tied  here  then I've a vision of the Amb. again.  But so far I've seen nothing of what "Maps" has to offer, only 12 to 14 hours at the board a day. 
 Coming here I was coming to a great experience!  I left all adventure behind. 
 Comes the smile &ndash; I confess!  Homesickness for the old 1st! 
 May 30 173. Out of the hut for an hour this afternoon, so a bake and a swim:  in the adjoining field a long narrow high tree flanked field of buttercups, there's a good deep pool, a duckboard project as a springboard, and another acts as a climber from the water:  others in were a dozen Engineers. 
 Shelling hereabouts early this morning, and D.R.A. shelled out.  No casualties. 
 Still working at the great series of Defence Scheme Maps. 
 As reports are of abnormal dumps well strung out along hedges and shell-holes, and of great new dumps growing, so the sooner these maps get to Brigade the better. 
 May 31 174. By order of G.S.O. II, today starts new issue of one day a week away from the board, compleat to yourself.  A day of lovely sun, sun through a window!!! 
 June D.H.Q. 175. For an hour this afternoon in the sun and bathing, the same crowd  as  that all afternoon seen, and they for the most part finely built and sunburned, the green by the pool with they baking, wrestling and standing balancing on one another's shoulders brought suggestion of old Spartan playgrounds. 
 No mail up. 
 176. This, from today's Patrol Report.  Summary No. 48, 6 a.m. 31/ to 6 p.m. 1/.  Daylight Reconnaissance.  Pte. Knight of Left Btn. left our post at midday and moved towards enemy post at X. 26 &amp; 25.80 (map ref.).  He crawled through a wheat crop to within a few yards of the post, and not observing any movement, he entered the post.  Numerous stick bombs were lying about and some equipment and a rifle.  A small possy was then examined and found occupied by a German who called out in alarm.  He was shot.  This aroused the remainder of the sleeping garrison who made for the intruder.  Knight waited long enough to shoot the foremost man, then turned and ran out of the trench to the wheat field, and from there fired again at the enemy.  Lewis gunners in our posts 
