 [Page 151] 
 June 10 195. In Cassel yesterday bought Phillpott's "Old Delabole", now its finished, a well written tale and of the manner following Thomas Hardy's, it is a tale of &ndash; as Jake would call them, 'cousin Jacks', a tale of a slate quarrying district of Northern Cornwall and of the villiage leaders and followers, but the perfection of drawing comes with the detailling of their religion and their life. 
 Salute to the Dead If any ponder in their bitterness, Doubting the struggle is of little worth That robbed them of the dearest thing on earth, Brooding in desolation and distress Upon a sorrow no man can assess &ndash; A flaming hope may lighten all their dearth: That through these throes shall rise to glorious birth A ransomed world the centuries shall bless. 
 Salute the dead!  the dead who died so young (Let each mind lay aside its private pain!), Who put adventure to the touch, and flung Their opening lives abundant life to gain. Salute the dead!  From such seed shall be sprung Rich harvests from the armies of the slain! 
 Theodore Maynard 4, Ruskin Gardens, Ealing, W. 
 196. Mail in, his "Shakespeare to O'Henry" hailed Maynard as one of the great Georgians:  and from the samples of his work &ndash; "The Good Atheist: and "The Bad Atheist" he justifies all praise.  This from "The Sunday Times" of yesterday. 
 "Elites" from Paris should arrive shortly:  will keep "The Virgins of the Rocks" for next day issued. 
 June 10, 11 197. Today, the most terrible G. this year!  Old resurrecting of cables sent from Cairo.  So I'm out of the credit of &pound;4 I was holding to, &pound;1.14.1.  Its useless grouting in writing a protest &ndash; there's been a whip around the whole Div. of cable [indecipherable] contracted sending from Cairo, and the form in use there plainly stated payment would be from deferred pay, the change though &ndash; all to our inconvenience is typical of the whole damned Military.  Thank God it will have no strong standing at home "Apres la Guerre". 
 In future I'll dodge the Commonwealth Bank in the matter of cables, the Military there, "for our convenience" have taken a hand, and forbidden the posting of registered letters to France! 
 June 11 198. All the afternoon till evening making great semi-prints of the Strazeele Map for the 2nd Brigade.  Frank brought across to me at the C.R.E. receipt from T.B.C. and from Beaumonts the third book of his press &ndash; "Deux Raptures", the book a disappointment:  "Tides" the 
