  
 (51) Winter was now on us in earnest and the weather piercing cold.  St Maxent was nicknamed the "Venice of the Somme", because of the muddy and wet streets.  These were almost impassable and every morning a fatigue had to clear the roads of the mud before we could march over them. 
 Our billets were over-run with rats.  I remember one night when we were all asleep, the rats were scampering along the rafters and one overbalanced and fell down on to my face.  It almost stunned me - stunned the rat also - (we killed it) and I thought that the war was on again and that a bomb had struck me. 
 We now refused to drill as the war was over, so every morning we had to do route marches through the snow for exercise and in the afternoon play soccer in the snow.  We also used to make great snow men and pelt each other with snow balls. 
 Whilst here I received twelve parcels from Australia in one mail (received some of my brother's parcels as he had returned to Australia) and of course shared them with some of the unlucky ones who seldom or never received parcels. 
 The influenza epidemic now broke out amongst us and it was sad to see so many of our men dying with the 'flu - ones who had gone all through the war without a scratch.  Strict precautions were taken.  Our clothes were put through fumigators &c.  For a few weeks it was very severe - everything was disorganised, no drilling &c, and many were sent to hospital, several of them dying.  The man next to me in my billets (Charlie Godden) a fine big strapping chap, died from it.  After four weeks the severity of it seemed to have spent itself and we soon forgot all about it. 
 Visit to Battlefields 
 I had three days leave granted to me to go to the Battlefields and try and find the grave of my cousin (Private B.G. Johnson) - 25th Battalion A.I.F. - who was killed in a raid at Morlancourt on 10th June 1918.  My aunt had written to me from Australia and asked me to try and do this for her. 
 On Monday 23rd December I left St Maxent and walked through pouring rain and sleet to Abbeville.  Caught train from there to Amiens.  At Amiens I got a lift in a British Motor Lorry and went to Corbie where I stayed the night, camping under the lorry with the Tommies.  It was piercing cold and we lit a fire to keep us warm.  A lot of soldiers were billetted in Corbie (none of the civilians had returned as yet) and we walked up to the Square that night and the famous Grenadiers Guards Band (whose unit was billetted there) played some fine music, which is still fresh in my memory.  Next morning (Christmas Eve) I was up at daylight and armed with a map of directions, a pass to visit the battlefields, and some food - food was unobtainable in the devastated areas - I walked along the canal past "Circular Quay" (which name was painted on the landing steps - some of the Aussies had done this when billetted there) through Vaux-Sur-Somme and came to Sailly -le-Sec, or what was left of this once large town.  It was quite different to the day we entered it first (nine months previously) to stop the German advance. 
