Fleurbaix 
9/4/16
Waken early by the C.O. and Major Matthews and discussed the question of a certain spy and laid plans accordingly. Met at Elbow Farm at 1030 and set off for firing line. Passed burial ground into communication trench along which we walked on duck boards raised above the water and covered with expanded metal to prevent slipping. All along pumps were being worked by men by hand. Trenches very shallow in places.
Eventually reached firing line and found it very like a wall of sand bags, the men in "bays" and wearing steel helmets, the dugouts decently constructed and not too bad. Periscopes scarce, only two in the company. Plenty of wire out in front and the "noman's land" is flat green grass. Two hundred yards away is another sandbag wall ? the German trenches, No shooting going on except with one of the scarce periscope rifles. 
On the right of this company is a dangerous salient unoccupied and about the responsibility for which there seems great uncertainty. Taken all round there is not much difference between our trenches and those at Gallipoli. Inspected thoroughly the whole line I am to take over with my Sgt. Major Hogarth. 
Yeadon is an amazingly smart chap and like a ferret for finding out things. Returning he kept us amused at his remarks made in his squeaky voice.
Jay's Post is a stronghold just in rear and consists of two redoubts. McKay will be detailed as garrison of this. This particular spot is shaped thus the dotted line representing the enemy who are all round so the importance of our stronghold X is self apparent. We can see from behind our trenches in rear of Fritz and it strikes me we can put a few good shots up our trees when they have their full coat of leaves and snipe the enemy well.
Returned to lunch and sent down the platoon commanders to get the lay of the land so they can go on alright in the dark. Dr Barzelley goes away once more to a Brigade this time and French mortar battery and bombing claim 3 others. Of the original staff of officers who left Australia we now only have about 14 still with us out of 32. Only about 6 have been right through without a spell in hospital.
Before tea saw a spy marched down under guard. Yesterday's shelling of the town is blamed upon him, ploughing quietly in a field with a white horse, he pulled it to right or left to denote the place of impact of each shell. 
Visited Curnoir laid up with his bad foot, Thomsen with a bad finger and the Dr. has a wretched cold. Myself have a face twice normal size which is to be lanced tomorrow. The Padre was being teased at Batt HQ. It is Sunday today.