Erquinghem-Lys
18/5/16
A lovely fine day the warmest we have so far had and extremely quiet. Nothing much doing in the morning and the war was extremely quiet all day, one would never have known it was on. After lunch some Taubes flew over far more daring than usual and our guns got going on them. Their air coloured material is superior to our white fabric. The village was shelled during the afternoon and the 4.7 gun house was burnt down yesterday.
Rumoured that we stay on here for another fortnight. This afternoon the official photographer came round and got photographs of our men. Went down to the job after tea and heavy shelling of aeroplanes was going on so had to take cover against falling fragments of shells. Returned passing busy transport, enemy putting big shells on to it.
19/5/16
Another beautiful day. Aeroplanes were very active and the sky was flecked with the old familiar white flecks of the shells fired at them. All hands enjoyed watching these aerial fights. During the morning heavy strafing was in progress down north of Armentieres. Went out and looked over the work at Half Way House and found all correct. 
Went into Armentieres on the return journey and rode on the bicycle through its old streets. What a variety of troops the old Hotel de Ville must have looked on. Dated 1480 and much remodelled since it still stands slightly shell damaged but otherwise intact. Old cobble stoned streets. At Estanune bought some papers mademoiselle dilated on the various risqu postcards c by Kirchne and others, and also has some quite up to Egyptian standard. 
Attended a gas lecture in the afternoon.
Men's rations :- 1 lb fresh or frozen meat or 3/4 lb bully (3/4 tin), 1 1/4 lb of bread or 3/4 lb biscuits, bacon, 4 oz cheese, 3 oz Dried vegetables, 2 oz Tea, 5/8 oz Jam, 3 oz sugar, 3 oz salt, 1/2 oz mustard, 1/4 oz pepper, 1/36 oz Cond milk, 1/12 oz Equivalent,  lb fresh vegetable = 2 oz dried, 4 oz rice = 4 oz bread, 4 oz dried fruit = 4 oz jam, 2 oz honey = 4 oz jam, 4 oz bacon = 1/4 tin , 1 lt flour bread.