Fleurbaix 
10/4/16
A little practical joke was put up last night. The movements of a certain white horse were found to coincide with shelling by Fritz so we determined to dye the horse. Having located its stable the Sergeant Major (Yeadon) and a couple of kindred spirits set out with a strong solution of permangate of potash. Gaining access to the stable they transformed the horse's white coat into a bay one and then decamped. The owner evidently heard some noise but merely closed the top half of the stable door and then went away again. The effect of the dyeing was extraordinary ? one coat is insufficient and the horse now is skebald. Being restive, its head and legs stay their original colour!!
The Company marched down to the laundries and bathed there in vats of hot water and leaving their old socks received clean good ones in there place. After lunch the enemy commenced close round and put a shell through the farmhouse opposite. The women all ran for the trenches and the soldiers were streaking like ants all over the fields not knowing which direction to go. More shells followed landing all round us and one bursting closer wounded two men who were standing near our gate. One of them was a 7th Field Ambulance Sergeant and the shrapnel got him between the eyes. He was unconscious when taken away in the motor vehicle. 
Aeroplanes were up all day and one of ours had a very warm passage. Our guns put some good smacks into them. There is a battery on each side of the house and the sudden detonations are nerve shaking at first. 
Rum issue this afternoon ? one demijohn of potent spirit to each platoon. More worry than it is worth as we found out in Anzac and encourages the youngest boys to take their tot. Rumoured we are not here for long and go next to the left near Armentieres and after that some weeks into rest. Squads of men of the Pioneers passing wearing the steel helmet and looking the toughest of the tough cases.
Only small parties of about a section strength in one along the roads and then in Indian file which looks funny. Furphy that a mail is at Brigade and should reach here tonight. After tea one of our ?planes had a most exciting passage while flying pretty low the shells from the German antiaircraft guns were bursting thick all round it and they went very close. In the shape of a large rectangle the sky was dotted white thickly with the smoke of shell bursts. It got away safely.
In another which went up later the machine guns kept popping. 
C.O. down inquired about Miles as QM strongly recommended him for the job in succession to May, Hawkins to be R.Q.M.S. Received orders for detail of extensive working parties by day night tomorrow at Tin Barn and Dead Dog other sweet sounding places.
Bed 2200