Fleurbaix
25/4/16
A beautiful morning with the feel of Spring in the air and a warm slight breeze blowing scented with fruit blossom. The meadows covered with daisies and other wildflowers among which bees drone busily. Went to Elbow Farm to revise a Court Martial and all round pieces of H.E. shells were plonking falling from bursts up in the clouds at an aeroplane. The trees shedding their catkins. 
Last night the Germans ambushed a 21st patrol and got well home on them, killing a Corporal and wounded another man Robertson as well. At 1330 the Coy. fell in in the courtyard close under the eaves of the farm buildings for inspection by me, when the Germans commenced shelling us. The first shell landed and burst in the fields on the enemy side and exploded within a few of 17 boxes of bomb. 
Another following immediately decided to put all the men into the narrow topped trenches just outside and hid from enemy view. They filed out quietly some getting steel helmets until the supply was exhausted. The trenches just took the 230 of them. The bombardment then started properly one going through the barn and bursting inside wrecking the contents. Others followed in quick succession and it was funny hearing the remarks. Immediately the report of the gun was heard 230 heads would disappear from view as all crouched down. After the burst 230 heads would appear like magic "Jacks in the box" only to dive down again when the next arrived. One H.E. burst on the corner of the trench but no one was hurt and we had no casualties at all. 
Went up to the firing line at 3 pm with Yeadon whose squeak voice funny comments are a most amusing. Noticed that the heads of Erquinchem the trench is very dangerous the enemy's trenches 300 yds in front being clearly in view. 
Aerial torpedo bombs seem to have been fairly thick in those parts of late. The old tower at Bois Grenier has been still further ruined by shell fire. The last few days Furphy that Turkey has sued for peace but no confirmation. 
Some AMC men billeted here, when bombardment started today ran for their lives up to the village. Court Martial if they had been my men. Between here and our old demolished billet are numbers of shell holes and the Estamines next door had a H.E. in one side and out the other without exploding. Some very heavy stuff came over about tea time going towards ERQUIGHEM. 
Our guns let go a few occasionally. Left for the trenches at 7.45 pm in platoons in single file with two minute intervals and had an uneventful passage. Took over and had a cup of tea with the 21st officers before they left. We had a patrol out at this time and by our cessation of snipping they evidently smelt a rat and put up their flares often. Excellent flares too and fired with some force ? one very bright one travelled at least 350 yards and landed well in rear of firing line. Some men got lost coming in and delayed things somewhat but the 21st had a lot of delays and had to wait 1  hours before moving. 
Remark by gentleman who fell off a duckboard and soused into the water "Wish to God I?d been hatched a f--------duck!". Visited Jays Post at 10.20 and found them all correct there.
Slightly more activity than usual along the front. Rations and supplies coming up by tram was a rather noisy business. Remark that there is not much of Belgium left to defend ? it's nearly all in sand bags. Rats very bad and running about like young kittens. 
Notice up in trenches on bays:- "Anzac buffet ? Iron rations obtainable here. "Grand concert tonight. Admission Gentlemen free. Officers 5 francs".
Bunk 0000