Erquinghe Armentieres
10/5/16
After breakfast went down to Half Way House and had a look at the work there. Met my batman with clean clothes at corner of the road to the Baths and went up there and had a luxurious hot bath. A very opulent resort. Lounged around until after lunch and at 4 pm left with Major Matthews for Armentieres and soon found ourselves near the Town Hall the old roof and clock tower of which seemed to have received fresh damage since we last saw them. 
Visited various shops and found the shop girls in some of at least doubtful virtue. Small boys approached us in the street with cries of "You want mademoiselle". Just round corner to a large well built church dated 1842 and went in. It was beautifully appointed inside and the fine stained glass windows all bore traces of shell fire. Some of the faithful came in, an attendant lighted the altar candles, the priest followed and commenced a service. All within a very short distance of the trenches, the clash of antiaircraft guns bombarding a Taube reverberating all through the building.
We made off past this church and seemed to find in Rue de Jesuits and older portion of the town one house dated 1722. Did some shopping in the main street and had afternoon tea at a special quiet place for officers. Went for dinner to "Au Bulf" and had same in the upper room hors d?ouvres, pork cutlet c. No pudding in France. 
Walked well round again. All banks closed including Banque de France, Credit Lyonnais, Comptoir National of Paris. Bought La Vie Parisien and a novel from a sprightly girl in and Estaminet who also sells art studies and postcards of a very hot nature and very animatedly points out all the special points of each picture. The town full of troops most of them Tommies and after dark became lively with wheeled transport flares going up from German trenches all around.
Left for Half Way House and Rue Fleurie going over the whole battalion ground and seeing all working parties on their jobs. Kept busy answering sentries challenges.
Bed 12.
11/5/16
An extremely quiet day in all ways. Slept in until late in the morning and then made arrangements for relief of men at Rue Fleurie. Paid all those in camp during the afternoon and of course it was inevitable that about 16 imshied before marching off. Skenesmith went on leave and we gave him a send off drinking his health in the Champagne of the country which is fairly good stuff. C.O. on a Court of Inquiry re the Stokes Guns, rumoured we are going into the section of trench just in front of Rue Fleurie. 
Mounted at 6 pm as orderly officer for the Battalion. Trying hard to learn French and spend a lot of time with the dictionary.