Fleurbaix
22/4/16
A very cold and rainy morning. Great trouble in getting the lads out, they were dogtired after last night and their clothes all sopping still. Moved off by sections to Erquinham and went through the old fashioned little town to a brick building once a laundry and a dye factory now Divisional baths. Thomas late of S/6, now an AMC Corporal was in charge. The men marched in and took off all their clothes, lousy garments were disinfected while they were bathing and on coming out all were issued with clean underclothes socks. Passing inside there are big wooden vats full of hot steaming water. The men all got right in up to their necks and soaked and washed for about half an hour. Great joy and splashing ? about 500 there altogether. Special place for officers ? had the best bath since last at Shepheards Hotel Cairo. A canteen on the premises and great sales of cake were made . All agreed it was worth the walk there through the heavy rain.
Returned through the slush and mud ? still raining indeed it had done little else but rain since we left Roquefort, much struck with the beautiful green everywhere. Lovely high grass and leafy hedges, each meadow with its elm tree other trees. 
The old thatched farm houses with there farm yards. All along the roads are small brick shrines or chapels, just big enough to hold a small altar and statue. Inscriptions "Notre Dame de Lourdes, pries pour nos. Salut Regine". Over all shops are signs. "The Break of Day". "The Three Kings". c. All towns are very close together. Fleurbaix is in sight of Erquinham so on. Quaint old damaged church here with square tower and thickly crowded graveyard. They seem to favor iron tombstones with circular tops and hang wreaths on these.
After lunch round the town on Court Martial business and then home. Still wet. Quiet evening and then early to bed.
23/4/16
All moved down at 8.30 am and took over the garrison at Elbow Farm in order to permit "D" Co to bathe. After their tramp up there they had to return without a wash owing to Engineers c. having them. Padre Gordinich came down at 9 and said mass and Padre Durnford followed with a service it being Easter Sunday.
Aeroplanes very active during the morning and heavily bombarded by the anti aircraft guns. A few shells landed not far off and blew out some machine gunners, one getting his cheek blown about. The Brigadier round and annoyed at one of my men (who was not aware of his passing) using the utterly depraved term "f---ing" in referring to an aeroplane, and also handed out a jolt with reference to a fellow who went out into full view of the enemy "just to watch it better". 
Returned to my billet at noon and got word our artillery were going to strafe "Fritz at 3 pm. Arranged dispositions in case this place get blown out and got all gear out into the courtyard in case of fire. Rumoured 8th Batt. Relieve us on Thursday and we don't go into the trenches again before going into reserve. Our artillery did a mild strafe in the afternoon and after tea we had a daring exhibition of flying by British Aeroplanes. Hundreds of shells bursting round them but very daring flights continued. Am in charge of 200 men doing odd jobs on trenches almost up to the firing line and do not expect to finish until the dawn of next day commences to break.