Erquinghem-Lys
24/5/16
Awakened early by vigorous bombardment at an aeroplane and turned out hurriedly at the sound of a big explosion close by which turned out to be an aeroplane bomb landing on "B" Co. billet. Major Forbes rang up to say Courtmartial was adjourned. Went on parade. Gas drill in helmets, rapid adjustment, passing orders, musketry c. After lunch marched to baths at laundry and all had an excellent hot bath. Things fairly quiet but rumours current of big preparations for a stunt in a few days. 
A Taube was overhead about 3 o'c and our gunners are said to have brought it down the other side of Armentieres. At teatime an instructional sergeant major delivered a lecture in bayonet fighting in the new style. It should take on very well.
25/5/16
Up at 5.50 and on parade. Owing to Orderly Sergeant's mistake No. 12 platoon were  hour late in turning out. Roused and gave them any extra half hours drill, making them go like hell until nearly 7.30. Varied syllabus of games, gas drill bayonet fighting the rest of the day. M. Seigfried our interpreter put in hours conversation with us. After tea went for a walk down to the Riverhys with Bert Swindon. Lovely hedged lanes and green meadows covered with wild flowers, daises, flags c. Lovely picturesque old farm houses mostly full of soldiers.
26/5/16
Parades all day. Work varied ? drill, bayonet fighting, physical drill and games, the latter very popular and "smack a ----" extremely so. 
About lunch time Dyett found a German field message dropped from one of their aircraft. A long flag about 3?6"" x 6" had a small metal case attached. This was corked, inside was a letter addressed to Royal Flying Corps stating Lieut B. Basden had died from injuries caused by his aeroplane crashing down into their lines that he had been buried with full military honours. 
They enclosed 5 photographs showing German soldiers attending the funeral. Smart men well uniformed. Officers on parade wearing all their medals. In fact the thing seems rather overdone and one wonders whether it really is this chaps funeral and not one of some stock photographs. Our officers dying are here shot into any old grave the same as the men. Only an officer gets a grave to himself.