Erqunghem-Sur. Lys
4/6/16
Fall in at 6 o'c and drilled about 70 men. After breakfast commenced again. News of Gallipoli honours arrived today, Stewart awarded the Military Cross which makes two to the Battalion now Coran awarded the DCM of which we now have 3. The other item of interest is the North Sea disaster and the fact that Germany is floating a loan of 300,000,000 ? probably there is some connection. 
Thomsen came in about lunch time and is full of his air experiences and ballooning. He says a man is invisible from 5000 feet and horse is a minute speck and that last night the Canadians lost 1000 yards of trenches and that all these operations are visible from the balloon. The little row of baskets and the cup in the fabric are for rudder purposes.
C.O. witnessed a preliminary cante at a trench raid and a long pipe full of ammonal is used to clear the barbed wire. Just pushed right through it explodes sideways and clears a lane for the attackers. Those 6? behind are quite safe.
Colonel Watson granted the C.B. these honours are simply put in a hat and drawn for. 
Today every blanket in the company was called in which leaves my men to expect to sleep on a bare floor with a waterproof sheet underneath and no blanket at all. All excreta is now burned in the incinerators mixed with sawdust and the system acts very well. 
Went out with fatigue 200 strong and buried cable up near the firing line occupied by 17th Battn. Very good tramway and excellent trenches that could not be recognised as those left by the Tommies. Went up to the 17th Battn H.Q. ? a very comfortable dugout and yarned there for a while.
The men being on piece work soon dug in well. It was grey cold night and the gun flashes and flare lights gave the sky a weird look. The German flares are very good and appear to be of magnesium kind and float on the air. About 11 a heavy bombardment commenced about a mile south of Fleurbaix and raged for an hour. The fitful flashes of the artillery shone halfway across the sky and the flares turned night into day. We marched the 5 miles back in the cold and my good lads had to turn in without blankets.