Copy of Letter received on 19th February 1917 by H.S. Williams from Major General Holmes, C.M.G, D.S.O. etc.
16th Dec 16
My dear Harry
Thank you so much old boy for your splendid letter of 21st October & all the news it contains. Your letters are so carefully written & are like a book, they are most interesting & I can tell you are keenly welcomed, not only by myself but by Basin & Jack Travers to whom I pass them.
I have recently had two trips to London, one in October for 13 days & a second at end of November for 6 days & both most enjoyable. I stayed at Morley's Hotel, Trafalgar Square, which I made my head quarters & I radiated from there in all directions 50 miles. I had a motor car at my disposal all the time. It was a "Sunbeam" car presented by Mr Winchcombe of Sydney to the A.I.F. Headquarters, so if you happen to know Mt Winchcombe just let him know what pleasure & profit I gained from his gift after 21/2 years of War without a holiday. Of course I saw the usual sights of London, dined at all the hotels, The Carlton, Savoy, Princes, St Ermins, Windsor & others, at the Automobile Club, the Army & Navy, St Stephens, the Caledonia & went to all the theatres, - of course as knowing me so well, you may imagine I did not go alone, but of this more anon when I see you. - But London, though marvellous, is not England. But I need not tell you, as you know England better than I do. But I was charmed with the runs into the country - the Thames Valley, Eton, Windsor, Richmond, Maidenhead, Cookham (Ah! thats the place now for a honeymoon if you like so I must remember it), Guilford, Bookham (where Mr Cecil Darley lives & by way he asked kindly after you) Birkenhead, the Chiltern Hills in Hartfordshire. I must cry a halt or you will think this a geography lesson. Anyway I have lost my heart to dear old England, the loveliest country I have seen or wish to see, & I now forgive anyone who wants to live there. I met my wife's relations, splendid people who live on the Hampton Court line.