2.They are quite as good looking as my wife was. They made me most welcome. Hampton Court too, - is it not beautiful? I had luncheon with a dear old lady & her daughter (unmarried). The mother is the widow of a Royal Navy Captain named Stirling who was lost at sea with all hands & Queen Victoria 20 years ago placed a suit of rooms at the disposal of the widow & her young child for the widow's life. She is a perfect walking encyclopaedia of the palace with all its pictures & tapestries, Royal Apartments & interesting history.
I had dinner one night at Princes with Reggie Bloxsome & his wife. He found me out at Morleys. We had a great chat about the early days of the Board & those then connected with it. He asked to be remembered to you, Smail, Trevor-Jones, Corben & Miss Edwards (Mrs Boyd Edkins). Please let them all know for me. After dinner we went into the dancing room until 11.30 & altogether had a most enjoyable time. I saw a good deal too of Mrs Billy Watson & Mrs Lebby Hordern, the Sly Family from Strathfield (Dr George). I had luncheon with them in their flat. They return to Australia in January via America. Also met Mrs Gordon Wesche, Mrs Dangar & Mrs Ted Simpson at afternoon tea. Oh what a change this all was from the rotten trenches & the shells & the bombs & all the filth & beastiality of War. Bah, its horrible. The second time I went over was just after I had come out of a tour in the Front Line during which I had a very strenuous time, having carried out with my Brigade a successful attack on a German position which up to then had withstood two attacks, but my dear old Brigade stormed & carried it at the point of the bayonet without firing a shot about 6.45 in the morning in the midst of a fog. We killed hundreds & took 50 of the 5th Prussian Grenadier Guards prisoners & some of them said my fellows were in & on top of them before our own artillery barrage on their trenches had lifted. My fellows were splendid. We have carried out a good many attacks now & do you know, Harry, never have they failed me. Never have I asked them in vain. A Commander gets credit but what could he do if his men were not with him. My men are with me. They are my personal friends. I know what they can do, I know what they will do, therefore I am confident & being confident I am content.