<p class="page" id="a5993015">[Page 15]</p>
<p>very monotonous job having to last for twenty four hours. At 11 AM that night a big light like a fire could be seen on the port side some miles away which we were told was a transport with no troops aboard which had been blown up by the Huns. A few minutes past 11 o'clock a big British battleship crossed our bow passing close along side the ship looking like a big island in the dark. When the battleship passed to stern our ship put on extra speed which it maintained throughout the night. At 2 PM the next day 25th March we passed quite close to the island of Malta, which is a very pretty place to look at, but did not call in. During the 26th troops were all inoculated &amp; the following day I was put on submarine guard for twenty four hours. That afternoon we arrived at France &amp; our ship was pilotted into the harbour of Toulon by a Torpedo Boat Destroyer which came out to sea to meet us. We entered the Harbour which lay behind a big breakwater, just after the mid-day meal dropping anchor about the middle of it. Toulon is a very pretty &amp; interesting place for right round the waters edge are numerous big beautiful white stone buildings with red tiled roofs which had lawns &amp; gardens which gave the place a very picturesque appearance. Behind the main parts of the town are huge mountains &amp; on the top of these could be seen Forts &amp; look outs, these giving the place a very indomatible &amp; snug appearance. At the head of the harbour could be seen the big naval station, dockyards &amp; coaling stage &amp; torpedo boats were moving about among the ships in the harbour. Ferry boats were busy running about to &amp; fro &amp; as each one passed our ship ringing cheers would go up from both French Civilians &amp; our troops. During the afternoon the battalion band was prepared &amp; that night we held a big concert aboard with musical selections it being the first piece of enjoyment the boys had had since the concert we had in Egypt before entraining. Near where our ship was anchored could be seen the remains of sunken vessel for the top of it was a few feet above water &amp; rusted with age. It was about 8 AM next morning when we left Toulon breaching the open sea once more &amp; once outside the harbour found that the weather was very unpleasant for the wind was blowing fairly strong &amp; the sea was running high which caused a number of the troops to become sea sick. Being among those who did not suffer with sickness I was detailed on submarine guard which also included the guarding of battalion gear on the main deck which proved a very strenuous duty for each time the ship rolled, the gear would move about &amp; my time was fully occupied in keeping it together. Our voyage lasted about six hours in which time we reached Marseilles after following the coast all the way. To find the entrance of the harbour here from the sea is a puzzle for it is bounded by a big break water, the entrance overlapping, but we were guided through the entrance &amp; along passed the wharves by a pilot boat. Just prior to entering the harbour it started to rain but the troops were far too interested to notice &amp; our band struck up the British &amp; French national anthems. As we passed the different wharves deafening cheers rent the air from the French people of the wharves answered by our boys. Each wharf was guarded by a French soldier who were dressed in red &amp; blue uniforms which presented a peculiar sight for present day soldiering. When the boat was tied up the gangways were swung, then I was detailed with a party to unload the baggage on to the wharf which was done by the ships cranes &amp; when this duty was completed returned to our quarters aboard ship to have tea. The Marseilles harbour is a very fine &amp; extensive place, the</p>