<p class="page" id="a5993044">[Page 44]</p>
<p><u>Belgium</u><br/>The train journey of the 26th of August 1916 lasted about six   &amp; a half hours &amp; during that time we had crossed the borders of France into Belgium to a small railway siding about a mile west of Poperinghe. When the train pulled up orders were received to fall in, in four in the railway yards then set off on a march going about three miles where the battalion was put into huts in which was called Toronto Camp. It was about 2.30PM when the battalion was dismissed to their respective quarters there being one hut for each platoon. The remainder of that day passed uneventful for the troops were allowed a rest for they were all very tired after their train journey &amp; marching. Next morning the 27th I was called into the company orderly room being shown Battalion routine orders for I had been promoted to Temporary Corporal in same thus receiving my first rise in rank in the army. The following day I was detailed as Battalion orderly Corporal the duties being to assist the battalion orderly sergeant in his duties in the camp &amp; lasting for twenty four hours. During the same day the troops were marched into Poperinghe for a bath &amp; clean change of under clothing this being very acceptable for it had been a month since they had the last. At 11 PM the following night the 29th the battalion was disturbed by a gas alarm all hand being awkened then had to put on their gas helmet &amp; await the order for all clear. When the order came for all clear, I was detailed in charge of a gas guard having to remain on that duty until 6AM the next morning. During that day the 30th orders were received to pack up all our gear for we were to go into the front line that night. it was late that afternoon when the battalion lined up then when all was ready we were marched to a railway siding to the north of Poperinghe &amp; put aboard a train. it was not long before the train started to move the ride only lasting about twenty minutes when we were disentrained at the southern outskirts of Ypres where we were met by guides there being one to each platoon who were to take us to the front line. When the troops left the train they were kept standing in the railway yards for a few minutes when suddenly the whistling of shells could be heard coming our way. The suspense was not long for the shells passed over our heads landing about eighty yards away &amp; in a few minutes our battalion had left the railway yards being put behind a long terrace of houses in the city. It was not long before we started to move our path being right through the main parts of the city which from beginning to end was one big heap of ruins &amp; seeing it for the first time at night it presented a very peculiar appearance making every one feel that they should like to explore it in daylight for it was only through seeing such sights that made one realize what artillery was really capable of doing. On reaching the far side of the city we passed through a big arch way in the city wall which was called "Lille Gates" it being guarded by Imperial soldiers. After passing through this gate I noticed we were crossing a big reinforced concrete brige which was over a lake that surrounds the city wall. Once across the bridge our path lay along a cobble road which was crossed by two railway lines, then across several fields to a reserve trench where our company relieved a company of the Dublin Fusaliers. This position was to the right of Hill 60 &amp; when the relief had been completed our boys were informed that we were within a few hundred yards of the front line &amp; would only occupy that position for twenty four hours. At 2 PM the next day the 1st September 1916 I was detailed as advance guard for my platoon having to go to the front line to have a look round so as to place the platoon in position that</p>