<p class="page" id="a5993016">[Page 16]</p>
<p>wharves are big structures with their large customs   &amp; storage sheds. At that time there was a considerable number of vessels which were engaged in war work berthed at different wharves loading  &amp; unloading. We did not disembark until dark  &amp; it was about 9.30PM when the troops started to leave the ship. The battalion was formed up in fours on the wharf &amp; then marched to the railway station about half a mile away in rear of the wharves. On arriving at the station we were  told to sit down until all the gear was loaded on the train it being about 1.30AM next morning before the troops were allowed aboard when I was lucky enough to secure a seat in a first class carriage. The train was of considerable length eight men being allotted to a compartment &amp; with all their equipment it did not leave too much spare room. The French railway stations are much different to our own for the platform is only raised about a foot from the level of the line &amp; the buildings are not so well finished off. After the train was in motion for a few hours we entered the wine growing districts for which France is famous &amp; some of the vineyards were exceedingly pretty, for in place they cover hills the vines being brown up the slopes or where ever there may be room. In these southern districts, fruits of all kinds seemed to grow in abundance &amp; at this time of the year the hedges, trees &amp; vines are putting on their new foliage giving the country a very beautiful appearance. Whilst passing through the mountains snow could be seen on the highest peaks looking as though they had been covered with a big white cloth. On leaving the wine growing area we came into the pastoral country which is perfectly irrigated in small allotments &amp; the young crops were then just beginning to show their head above ground for the air was full of springtime. The whole country seems to be a net work of roads which are nearly all white metalled, the main roads being avenues of tall tree which grow to a considerable height. The train took us quite close to Paris where it branched off &amp; we were very much disappointed for all were anxious to have look at the city of note which we had heard &amp; read so much about in history. On getting up north we passed quite close to the English Channel where the masts of some sunken vessel could be seen above the water from the train as we passed. The train passed through the outskirts of Calais which appeared to be a fine place &amp; shortly after passing Calais the train passed close to a huge Dirigible Airship &amp; its hanger which was the first most of us had ever seen. our ride came to an end disentraining about 4PM on 31st March 1916 at a siding about  a mile &amp; a half north of Hazebrouck in Flanders after a sixty hour ride all being stiff &amp; sore through being cramped up so long in the train. Throughout the whole of the trip we were treated very well by the French people who gave the troops bread &amp; wine &amp; at several towns along the route the train pulled into sidings where we were given hot tea with (Cognac) in it &amp; was very acceptable. The troops were very pleased with the reception that was given them by the French people but were unable however to fully appreciate their kindness due to the fact that by instructions we were strictly confined to the train for every time the train would stop anywhere sentries were posted along the line to prevent men from getting off &amp; accepting bread &amp; other things that were offered by the civilians; we were not even allowed off to fill our water bottles. Throughout the whole of the trip a very noticeable thing was that nearly all the French people were dressed in black &amp; old</p>