<p class="page" id="a5993036">[Page 36]</p>
<p>and no rations were to be taken up in the meantime. This order was promptly obeyed for no one was anxious to make a trip across the open country under such a barrage. The thoughts of being relieved from such a place inspired new life into all hands for they had all suffered some way or another from the enemy's retaliation. On arriving back at the dump I found that all those of our battalion that were out of the line &amp; could be found about eighty men all told had been brought there where they were enjoying a hot meal the first for a couple of days, that had been prepared by the cooks. When the meal was disposed of the men were taken back near Bucourt Wood into an open field being told to bivouac &amp; make themselves as comfortable as possible for the night. It was a very weird looking party that tried to settle there for they had not had a wash or a shave for a week &amp; the strain of hardships they had endured produced a ghost like appearance in their faces. When daylight appeared next morning the 26th July our party was increased in numbers by a few men who had been relieved from the front line during the night. Most of the men were still asleep which was not to be wondered as there as not a man there who was not suffering from absolute sheer exhaustion. Breakfast was served about eight o'clock the boys then being left to rest themselves but received a very rude awakening about midday for three shells of small calibre landed right among them slightly wounding one of the boys who was taken to the Dressing Station. There was only the three shells fell but they practically caused disorder among the boys for they simply started running about in a not knowing what they were doing for the re-action of the previous day had set in which showed how unstrung the mens nerves really were. The troops received orders to make their way back to Jackson's Dump during the afternoon for it was to be the assembly ground for the whole of the battalion. When I arrived there I saw the colonel with the boys he had brought out of the line with him &amp; it was not long before a good meal was given to all there being about two hundred men at that time with more arriving all the time in one &amp; two from the front line. When the meal had been consumed the Colonel gave orders to fall in, in fours then set off on the march at a very slow pace. We were taken back through Albert onto a big green hill the march being done with a rest about every mile &amp; throughout the whole way the Colonel who was on horseback kept riding &ndash; backwards &amp; forwards along the column encouraging the boys the whole time wearing a very determined satisfied smile which showed his appreciation for what the boys had achieved. When the battalion was halted the Colonel thanked the boys for their success in hanging on to  the captured ground also saying he was sorry they had to bivouac in the open but everyman was to be issued with three blankets for the night to assist them enjoy a hard earned sleep. The boys were then instructed to remove their equipment then fall in again for a roll call also to answer inquiries about the men who had been marked missing if possible. When this was completed the boys were collected in their right companies being told to settle down &amp; it was a very tired &amp; worn out battalion that lay down to rest their weary bodies in slumber with the sky for a roof that night. When the battalion began to stir next morning it was discovered that several of the missing men had turned up for they had been too exhausted to go with the unit the previous afternoon. After breakfast a big mail was issued &amp; was very lucky for I received several letters it being great to know that all who are dear &amp; near to you although so far away, are doing well after coming through such a stunt. About ten o'clock that morning the battalion moved off at a very slow pace the troops having their packs &amp; blankets carried by the battalion transport for they were unable to carry them</p>