<p class="page" id="a5993043">[Page 43]</p>
<p>Our next move took place on the 21st August the battalion marching as far as Warloy where we were put into billets. The stay at Warloy lasted about twenty four hours when we were marched to the First Anzac Reinforcement camp at Val-de-maison where the troops were put into tents this being the second occasion under canvas since leaving Egypt. There was a fair size reinforcement for the battalion here who were allotted to companies that afternoon &amp;   that night a big concert was organised by the battalion talent which proved a huge success for the troops had very little amusement. During the stay in this camp the only training indulged in was sports for the troops had not properly recoved from their recent experiences in the front line. On the 23rd the battalion was marched to La Vicogne where the Brigade was assembled for an inspection by General Birdwood who decorated officers &amp;   men with ribbons which had been won during the recent fighting. The General also thanked the boys for their fine effort in the big offensive also telling them that the Division was bound for a quiet front to reorganize which came as a big relief to all. The next day the 24th the Battalion set off on the march going so far as Gezaincourt where platoons were allotted to billets. Next day the 25th I was granted leave so with a couple of mates I visited the town of Doulens about two miles away having a real good time whilst there. Doulens is a fine place, having numerous big buildings including churches, post office &amp;  rows of big business places. The town itself is kept <strike>itself is kept</strike> very clean, the people generally, speaking very good English &amp;  although it was shelled by the enemy's long range guns at different times had a very fair population. When I arrived back at the billet that night I was detailed to be ready to move at 4 AM next morning to act as advanced guard for my platoon. I was awakened about 3.30 AM &amp;  set off for the Doulens railway yards accompanied by 3 NCOs &amp;   1 officer &amp;  on arriving at the yards was shewn the trucks my platoon was to occupy on a train journey that day. The Railway yard here is very extensive at that time holding a lot of military rolling stock for it was from here that the whole of our Division was entraining for the North. The battalion field kitchens were assembled in the yard the cooks being busy preparing breakfast for the companies which arrived about 5 AM when they were put aboard the train &amp;  breakfast issued to them. It was an hour later before the train started to move in a northerly direction on another of those monstrous journeys the comfort of which is only experienced by troops on active service. When settled down in the train with nothing to do my thoughts drifted back over the experiences of the past twelve months, also trying to picture the future &amp;   the part of the front we were then bound for. At this time it was just one year &amp;   three days since I went into camp at Liverpool &amp;   it did seem amazing that such a number of event could be crammed into so short a time.</p>