<p class="page" id="a5993053">[Page 53]</p>
<p><u>The Somme and Winter 1916</u><br/>During the train journey to the south we passed through Etaples at that point the main A.I.F. base depot also through Boulogne &amp; Calias it being the first time we had seen the English channel since arriving in France. The train ride lasted some time finally disentraining at Longpre on the Somme then had to march about two miles to the village of L'Etoile where the battalion was allotted to billets. This village was a very nice quiet little place providing very good comfortable quarters for our stay there which lasted a couple of days. by this time the weather was beginning to get very cold also being troubled with plenty of rain which meant it was necessary for the troops to wear their greatcoats at all times. The next move took place during the morning of the 23rd when the battalion was marched to Monfleurs about 2 miles away. On arriving at this village the battalion was put aboard a French motor convoy there being twenty four men to each motor lorry this being driven by French natives who were jet black. After a considerable wait we started to move the route laying through the outskirts of Amiens one of Frances largest cities but care was taken to see that no motor stopped in the city so as to prevent the boys from having a look round. After a very long ride the troops finally alighted from the buses on the southern side of Albert. The remainder of the journey had to be done by foot which proved very strenuous for it was across captured ground the mud averaging about knee deep with shell holes scattered about &amp; many of the boys fell into these holes some of them being four feet deep which meant that those who fell into them had to be dragged out by their mates. After ploughing about in the mud &amp; slush till nearly midnight with about a hundred pounds on our back we were at last put into canvas huts the floors of which were covered with mud at a place called Friecourt. The stay in these huts only lasted overnight for next morning the battalion set off again along roads &amp; across country still experiencing plenty of mud also rain which had set in. This days march terminated at a big hill on the right of Marmetz wood where the boys were put into big shallow dugouts which were made with sand bags being covered by huge tarpaulins like those used on our Railways. The troops christened this place "Muck Hill" on account of the mud &amp; they stay here lasted a couple of days. Camped near bye &amp; living under the same conditions were some of the other Australian Divisions so most of the boys spent their spare time in looking up their old mates whom in many cases they had not seen since enlisting. Our felt hats &amp; packs were taken from us here to be stacked until we came out of the line &amp; the troops were issued with extra ammunition, two bombs, &amp; two sand bags each which were to be carried when the battalion moved off. We were also issued with a yellow colored piece of cloth about three inches square which had to be sewn on the back of the tunic for aerial observation purposes when we went into the front line. The contemplated move took place during the afternoon of the 29th every one being fully loaded for although our packs had been taken from us the extra gear that had been issued to carry, far exceeded the weight previously carried. Our progress was very slow for the mud experienced on this march was deeper than that we had gone through before &amp; in some cases men were actual bogged having to be dragged out by mules which were used for pack animal by the artillerymen for it was impossible to use wheeled traffic. After about an hours struggling the company commander led the company to an old battered trench between Delville &amp; Trones Wood telling the boys to make themselves as comfortable as possible as it was to be their new home for the next few days.</p>