<p class="page" id="a5993112">[Page 112]</p>
<p>made my way to the advanced Loading station of the Field Ambulance near Strazelle. I was put into a waiting motor ambulance with two other wounded men, out of the battalion, &amp; we were taken to a big Dressing Station at Bourre. After having all particulars recorded about receiving the gas, I was put on another motor ambulance which took me to the 3rd Field Ambulance Dressing Station at Hondgenhem. At this place I was marked "Serious Case" also was given a pair of pyjamas, having to discard my uniform, then put on a stretcher for immediate dispatch to hospital. After a few minutes waiting I was carried aboard another ambulance with three other stretchers cases it then being about midnight. It was not long before we started to move &amp; after a long ride we were taken to No 2 Australian Casualty Clearing Station at Arques arriving there about 1.30 AM on 23rd June 1918. We were put into a big marque where I was examined by a Doctor, who was accompanied by a Sister, after which I was taken to another marque &amp; put into a bed. Next morning I was given a real good breakfast, also finding to my surprise that there were a lot of boys here wounded belonging to my company, all appearing to be happy &amp; contented. The Doctor came round later that morning &amp; after examining me he marked me for Urgent transport to Hospital, which made me feel that I was much worse than I appeared to be. Early the following morning I was carried onto a Motor Ambulance with three others then taken to St. Omer Railway station where I was put into the waiting room with a couple of hundred other wounded stretcher case of both Aussie &amp; Imperial Troops. After waiting some time all of us were carried aboard a hospital Train by members of the Army Medical Corps, then when everything was ready the train started to move. During the train ride the wounded were constantly waited on by Nurses &amp; Orderlies, receiving the very best of attention, with food &amp; Tea being brought round throughout the whole time. On arriving at Boulougne I was taken off the train, put into a motor ambulance then taken to 53 General Hospital at Wimereau where I was given a hot bath then tucked into bed for a sleep. It was an Imperial Hospital &amp; I was treated fairly well but I soon became tired of lying in bed with nothing to do so on the fifth day there I asked the doctor to allow me to get up, which he did telling me that I was not walk about, or stoop but to remain out in the fresh air as much as possible. On several nights here the enemy aeroplanes paid us a visit bombing all round the hospital but thanks to providence the Hospital was missed on every occasion but still some of the bombs fell uncomfortably close causing some very anxious moments. My progress in hospital was very favourable for I was discharged on the 6th of July, that day being taken to No 1 Convalescence Camp at Boulougne in motors where I remained for two days. Whilst here another Aussie Sergeant &amp; I managed to get into the city without leave where we spent several very pleasant hours in having a look round for Boulougne  is a very big place &amp; I had been there before so knew my way about. On the morning of the 8th all the Australians were taken to No 10 Convalesence Camp on the other side of Boulougne, where after a lot of unnecessary waiting &amp; fooling about was allotted to tents. This was a very big Imperial Camp, the Commandant having very little time for the Aussies, but that never worried the Diggers much for before dusk most of them had broken camp &amp; were in Boulougne without leave of absence. During the daytime physical drill was engaged in but it was very seldom a Digger was seen on parade for they spent their time in roaming about for the Imperial Officers &amp; N.C.O.s had very little control over them. About 10 PM on the 11th when all were in bed N.C.Os were sent from tent to tent throughout the camp to warn all Australians to ready to leave this camp at 7 AM the next morning, news which caused us to rejoice for we were all fed up with the place.</p>