<p class="page" id="a5993115">[Page 115]</p>
<p>There are several Picture &amp; Vaudeville Shows, beside a number of Dance Halls in the city all these assisting the troops to occupy their many spare moments in enjoyment. At this time the Harbour was used as a base of Channel Mine Sweepers &amp; other small naval ships also the starting place for several Channel liners which used to go to France at this time under censor. There were numerous sights of interest, especially on the outskirts of the city &amp; right along the sea front, which was a great treat to be among these surroundings after the battle fields of France. I received my fourteen days Fourlough on the 24th of October leaving Weymouth by the 8 A.M. train for London arriving there about 1 P.M. that afternoon. After booking a room at a Hotel I had dinner then made my way to the Hippodrome Thearte where I saw the "Maid of the Mountains" which proved to be a very good nights enjoyment. The following day I left London for Brighton where I spent three very pleasant  days with a friend having a look round the sights previously described in this book. I returned to London on the 28th where I spent the remainder of the day with several mates, whom I chanced to meet, &amp; after having a good look round turned into bed very late being tired out. During the night of the 29th I went to see "Shangai"  at  Daly Theartre, there seeing "Ivy Shilling &amp; Dorothy Brunton" our two Australian actresses &amp; the whole performance was very good &amp; well worth seeing. On the 30th I went to see "Bing Boys on Broadway" which was also a real good show. On the 1st of November I decided to leave London for Salisbury where I spent four very pleasant days with some friends having a good look round the old familiar surroundings also having a very good time in general. I returned to London on the 5th of November where I met a mate who took me out to Hammersmith to stay with some of his friends for the rest of my furlough. That same night I went to see " You never know you know", which was a most interesting &amp; amusing play. The next night being my last on leave I put in the "Grand Final" by going to see "As you were" a splendid Revue at the Piccadilly Thearte after which I returned to Hammersmith for the night felling sorry for myself. Next day the 7th my leave camp to an end so I left London by the 2 P.M. train for Weymouth, and after a monotonous ride arrived back in camp at 7 P.M. sick, sore, &amp; sorry after a good holiday. It was very hard to settle down to camp routine the next day for things seemed awfully slow but of course it had to be endured. A couple of days later we received rumours about Armistice being signed which did not mature officially until about mid-day on the 11th of November, which caused the boys in camp to go nearly silly for they all knew what it meant especially to their mates who were still carrying on over in France. As soon as the news was officially known the troops broke camp, then flocked in to the city where the celebrations were soon going in full swing to honor such an event. That night the troops from all the camps for miles round swarmed into Weymouth, mixing with the civilians where things were kept moving along merrily until well into the next morning, there being absolutely no sign of dissent or horse play. The following afternoon (12th) all men who could march were taken down into Weymouth where a big Ceremonial Parade was held of all troops both Australian &amp; Imperial and a long address of thanks was given by the Garrison Commander on behalf of the King for the services rendered, by all ranks, during the war, to bring about such a victorious ending of hostilities. On the 13th the troops were given a half holiday to carry on with the celebrations which was done to the full with no trouble being experienced with the boys. After this day all hands settled down once more to camp life the main thoughts of all, now being directed towards "Home &amp; Aussie" now that the fighting was finished with.</p>