<p class="page" id="a5993079">[Page 79]</p>
<p>It was not long before we made our way to the station where we go aboard a train saying good bye to my sailor mate &amp; Birkenhead about 10.30 PM. On arriving at Chester after an hours travel I found we had to change trains but however did not have long to wait for the next. This second stage proved to be about the same distance as the first for on arriving at Crewe found that we had to again change trains. It was about midnight when we stepped out on to Crewe platform it being fairly cold &amp; as we had some time to wait the time became very monotonous for there was nothing to see or do except walk about to keep warm. It was well into the morning when our train arrived which took us to Euston Station London after a lot of stopping. On alighting at Euston we took the tube to Charing Cross where we had to change into another tube for Waterloo Station arriving at the Later about 6 AM. It did not take us long to find our train which moved out about twenty five minutes later  was soon covering the distance to Salisbury where we changed trains for Amesbury. We arrived back in camp about midday after walking from Amesbury station, then handed over the prisoner to the Sergeant of the guard then made our way to the huts for a meal &amp; a sleep. The following evening accompanied by a couple of mates we went to have a look round Durrington which is only a very small but yet a pretty village with a small population. After going round the village we made our way out to see the "Old Village Blacksmiths Shop under the Spreading Chestnut Tree" which we had read about as school boys in Longfellows Poem. About a week later I was sent to No 3 officers Training School at Candahar Barracks Tidworth which is one of several barracks there, these barracks are supposed to be the most comfortable military quarters in the world. Adjoining Candahar is the Bhurtpore Barracks which at that time was the A.I.F. Headquarters of the Southern Command in England. Tidworth itself is only a very small village but is beautifully layed out with artificial forest through which runs a number of small water course &amp; the roads are all asphalt which practically make the whole place perfect. The barracks are also surrounded by tennis courts, polo grounds, football grounds &amp; a cricket ground which have been made for the benefit of the troops stationed at Tidworth. About a mile away to the South East of Tidworth lay the big Australian Detail camp of Perim Downs which at this time acommodated some thousands of troops. The Australians in this camp were men who were training for their return to the units in the field after being evacuated from hospital through sickness or wounds received in France. The course of training at the school was most interesting touching on all the most important subjects of military training on all the most important subjects of military training, organisation, &amp; administration. The staff consisted of all Imperial officers &amp; senior N.C.Os who had been well schooled in their respective subjects &amp; after many years of training showed us what real peacetime soldiering meant for very few of the staff had taken part in the great war up to that time. The training extended beyond the school grounds for manouvres were carried out both day &amp; night covering miles especially in subjects like patrols or attacking concealed positions at night. Bicycles were often used for such subjects as map reading, Billeting of troops &amp; scouting &amp; throughout the whole of these trainings not one grew monotonous. Leave was granted of a Sunday &amp; on these occasions I made use of same by going to Salisbury which was done by a big motor bus. This was a beautiful trip for the weather was good which accompanied by the scenery which in these parts is beautiful made the trip worth while. There were plenty of amusements in the Barracks for there were several picture shows &amp; Y.M.C.As, billiard rooms &amp; also a big theatre which put on some very good shows.</p>