<p class="page" id="a5993113">[Page 113]</p>
<p>Next morning after an early breakfast, the troops fell in at the prescribed hour, then after a roll call our party, about on hundred strong was put into motor lorries which took us to the Railway Yards at Boulougne where we were put into closed in Trucks. The ride lasted about twelve hours and throughout the whole journey we experienced no trouble with the boys, which made things easy for another Sergeant &amp; myself who had been detailed in charge owing to there being no officers with us. The journey terminated at Harfleur, near Le Havre, but from here we had to march about a mile to the 1st Australian Convalesence Depot at Rouelles. On arriving at the Depot the troops were given a good meal, after which we were allotted to tents then turned in for by this time it was about 10 P.M. The following morning at ( A.M. I was sent before a doctor who marked me for treatment also being exempt from all duties, which proved to me that I was still suffering from ill efects from the gas. I remained in this camp for eight weeks during which time I had to go before a doctor each week, on each occasion, being marked for further treatment. I did not mind being kept in this camp for it was a real good home, but at the same time a strict watch was kept for "Malingerers" who might be trying to take advantage of such a place, so as to prevent them being sent up to the front line again. Leave could be obtained into the City of Le Havre three times a week, a privilege which I always took advantage of, for there were plenty of places in the city where a man could enjoy some very pleasant hours. The city itself is of a rather decent type being fairly well laid out, at this time seeming very little affected by the war for Picture &amp; Vaudeville Shows were in full swing. I also spent several afternoons in the surf, swimming for the weather was beautiful &amp; this pastime was very nice for it reminded me of the good old days at home. The camp itself was also well catered for amusements, owing to the hard work &amp; organization of the Y.M.C.A., Australian Red Cross &amp; the depot Concert party of Diggers called the Yellow Dandies. There were two big Halls in the camp &amp; in either of these each night would be held a picture show or a concert, or else a Boxing Contest in the big Gymnasium, these things all assisting to keep camp life from growing monotonous. We also had a Sergeants mess where exceptionally good meals were served, also a billiard room where a very pleasant hour or two could be spent in having a game. At the end of my Eighth week here I was sent before two Doctors for an examination, where I was marked for a Medical Board being transferred to the Base Depot for that purpose the following morning. I had to wait a week in the Base Depot before going before the Medical Board which took place on the 9th of September, when I was marked B 2 which meant a trip to England for further treatment or else, to be sent home. The following week I obtained leave to Le Havre, which proved to be my last time in that city, where I had a real good time, returning to camp quite satisfied to settle down &amp; await the movement order to proceed to England.</p>