<p class="page" id="a5993069">[Page 69]</p>
<p>That afternoon the battalion moved forward across open country the only signs of warfare being long rows of barb wire which the huns had erected at intervals to harrass our advance. When about two thirds of the journey had been completed we came across several batteries our light field artillery who had their guns in position but the men were engaged in a game of football. After passing the artillerymen we passed through a big wood when my platoon was taken to a big railway embankment on the far side of Velu Wood where we relieved the 53rd Battalion. Half the company with headquarters remained in the wood to act as supports for the post on the railway line was only to give warning of enemy movement out in front. I was instructed to make my men keep a sharpe look out for it was known that the enemy was still retiring but his exact positions were not known. Nothing had been seen of Fritz by night fall so a big patrol was sent forward who returned about two hours later after covering several hundred yards without seeing the enemy. In the meantime another platoon had been sent to my position to relieve my platoon for I had received orders to go forward &amp; to the right to dig a post so as to protect the right flank of the company from any enemy patrol. Before daylight that night the company was moved forward some hundreds of yards to a big embankment, without encountering the hun where we were instructed to make the embankment a fighting position for it was to act as the front line. On arriving at the bank I was again sent forward about two hundred yards to dig an advance post to act as a covering party for the company while they were digging in. I had to remain in this post with three men until daylight when I received orders to return to the company where we had to set to &amp; make ourselves dug outs for shelter for the weather was still cold with occasional snow storms. During the night of the 6th two platoons of our company move up from the  rear to an embankment about fifty yards behind us where they dug in to act as supports to the front line. That night our company sent out further patrols to find the lay of the country ahead these patrols returning early with news that Fritz was still a good way off although some of his posts had been recently occupied. On receipt of this news it was decided to send a platoon forward about five hundred yards to a sunken road to act as the front line. prior to this platoon moving forward half of my platoon set out to capture a small hun post which had been occupied the night previous but on reaching the post it was found to have been vacated so saving my boys the trouble of taking it. By this time we were well on the Huns heels for we could feel his resistance tightening &amp; his defences becoming much stronger so next night it was decided to take the village of Hermies also a line of strong outposts which was strongly held. This meant that hard fighting would be necessary for these strong points were likely to hold up our further advance which was most important for by this time all knew that Fritz had not yet completed his retirement to the Hindenburg Line. our next move took place after dusk on the night of the 8th April when my platoon was sent forward to the sunken road then occupied by the remainder of the company who were to act as supports to C &amp; D companies of our battalion who were to do the attacking accompanied by the 2nd Battalion on their left that night. When zero hour arrived C &amp; D companies hop out &amp; as I afterwards learned took the line of strong points with very little effort the 2nd Battalion having to fight very hard for the village our Hermies which was successfully taken. our half battalion (C &amp; D) experienced some very heavy machine gun fire which luckily was very eratic for the Huns were firing at random without having very much effect. The stunt proved very successful for all objectives were gained advancing about a mile &amp; our battalion captured 250 prisoners &amp; 7 machine guns.</p>