<p class="page" id="a5993073">[Page 73]</p>
<p>it then being about dawn. It was not long before the troops had a good fire going to dry &amp; warm themselves &amp; a good hot meal was soon on the job after which all hand indulged in a well earned sleep. That afternoon when the boys were awakened orders were issued to leave the village on account of the enemy shell fire &amp; our company had to go to a sunken road on the outskirts where we made ourselves dug outs in the banks of the road. After a couple of hours hard work everyone had a good comfortable dug out which were all made from timber &amp; iron out of the village &amp; that night everyone was fairly happy. The village of Beametz was practically deserted being another of those places which the Hun had wilfully destroyed before he had evacuated. On the night of the 20th three platoons, mine included were out on fatigue but on arriving at the destination it was found that there were only sufficient tools for two platoons so I received orders to take my boys back to their dug outs. The next morning I was sent with six men to Brigade Headquarters in the village to act as Brigade guard to twenty four hours. That same afternoon the battalion was sent into the front line again our company being sent into supports in a sunken road to the left of the village of Demicourt. I was relieved from guard the following day the 22nd then at dusk set out to find the company in supports which I succeeded in doing after an hours marching. The duties in supports were to carry rations of a night to the front line companies from an old farm house used for cooking near reserves. Throughout the couple of days we remained here things were very quiet, the monotony being broken by numerous airial combats resulting in several planes on both sides being brought down. During the early evening of the 24th the battalion was relieved by the Yorks &amp; Lancs Imperial Regiment, then set out across country to Velu Wood to bivouac for the night. Close by the bivouacs were the ruins of a big French Chateau which had been shockingly destroyed by the enemy during their retreat. Next morning the battalion moved further back to Reincourt Camp, where the troops were put into tents, which was situated midway between the villages of Reincourt &amp; Beaulincourt about a mile north of Bapaume. The stay in this camp was very short for the following afternoon the battalion was march to a similar road near the village of Veaux to relieve the 18th Battalion who we were told was to practice a big forthcoming stunt. Our stay here only lasted the night for the 18th battalion relieved us early next morning after which we moved back to Reincourt camp. During the couple of days the battalion spent in this camp the troops were sent on salvage duties having to collect all the old iron &amp; clothing placing it in heaps so that it may be collected &amp; sent back to be remade. On the 29th orders were issued to be ready to move forward as we were to go to Veaux to again relieve the 18th battalion for the same purpose as previously mentioned. When the company was lined up ready to move off the company commander came to inform me that I would shortly be sent to England for a six month spell in the Training Battalion. This news staggered me for it came as a very great surprise for such a happening was a thing undreamt of as far as I was concerned. I was very light hearted when the company moved &amp; on reaching Veaux I was put in charge of an outpost on the side of the main road leading to the forward area about 4,000 yards in rear of the front line. From this post we could see the artillery ammunition columns taking up ammunition &amp; the battalion transports rations during the daytime under full observation of the enemy.</p>