<p class="page" id="a5993077">[Page 77]</p>
<p>After being fixed up at Headquarters several of us made our way to the War Chest Club where we enjoyed a meal under civilized condition which was the first for some time then booked beds for the night before proceeding into the city. Being the first time in London for the most of us it was a case of guessing where to go or what to do for we knew absolutely nothing about the place except from what we had others talking about. Three of us decided to see things through together so it was decided to make our way to Leicester Square which was done by taxi. On leaving the car when we reached the square we were practically lost, but after wandering about for awhile we came to the Hippodrome Theatre where we spent the evening see the big revue called zig zag. After the show we were again bushed for neither of us knew which direction to start out to find the War Chest Club but after wandering around for fully half an hour managed to find a taxi in a side street which soon took us to our destination where a peaceful slumber was soon enjoyed. Next morning was spent in wandering about having a look at the great city but not having much time no note was taken of anything in particular. Our party started to congregate at Waterloo Station a few minutes before 2 PM all being aboard the train in plenty of time. The train moved out at exactly 2.10 PM &amp; was soon passing through the outer suburbs of the great city, the scenery proving very interesting for it was so different to our own country. The journey passed uneventful until arriving at Andover where we had to alight for we had to change train to Salisbury &amp;   arriving there after a short ride received orders to get out. On leaving this train at Salisbury we had to march to the other end of the platform where we got aboard another train which soon started to move this stage of the journey also being short for we alighted at Amesbury the nearest station to our destination. When we had alighted we were informed that it was a good two miles walk to the camp so several of us decided to go by Taxi which proved a good idea for we were soon landed at the camp without any trouble of walking &amp;  carrying our gear. After reporting to Headquarters of the 1st New South Wales Training Battalion at Lark Hill Durrington we were soon allotted to our respective huts which were very comfortable. After disposing of our gear in the hut a good meal was issued after which we had a talk with old members of our battalion who were in the camp they being very curious about their mates &amp;   the disposition of the unit when we left them in France. It was late that night before we started for bed but turned in about midnight in a good comfortable slumber after a very tiring days travel. This camp was situated on the Salisbury plains which at that time was the training ground for practically all Australian reinforcements before proceeding to France &amp; the camps covered some acres of ground. After a couple of days spell our party of N.C.O's, which had been christened "The Fragments from France" had to settle down to parade ground work. There were a fair number of reinforcements in the camp which meant that there was plenty of instruction to give by the N.C.O's but the job was undertaken with a good heart. Camp life here was much appreciated after the line in France for I shared a nice little cubicle with a mate having a good bed with plenty of blankets &amp;   the food was also good &amp;   plentiful. On Sunday 13th of May I received leave to go into Salisbury so after walking to Amesbury with a mate we caught a motor bus which soon covered the twelve miles to Salisbury in a very short time for the roads in these parts are kept in perfect order. Salisbury is a fine big city being specially noted for its cathedral the spire of which is the tallest in England; the cathedral is surrounded by big lawns &amp; walks which on Sundays proved a great rendezvous for the people of the city &amp; the soldiers who were encamped on the plains at that time. The river Avon flows through the city &amp; along its banks in</p>