<p class="page" id="a5993118">[Page 118]</p>
<p>The most noticeable thing here is the peculiar little horse trams that run along the main streets, causing anyone to laugh who sees them for the first time. After wandering about until we were tired our little party decided to return to the boat which we did by means of the rope ladders on the stern of the ship. The ship lay in the same place until 2.30P.M. the next day when we started to move down the Suez Canal at a very slow speed. Prior to entering the Canal we passed more ships waiting to go through, then just inside the canal we passed the Government water supply which presents a beautiful scene. A few miles down the Canal on the Arabian side was a big Armenian Refugees camp which covered some acres of land, and as we passed the people flocked to the waters edge to give our boys a cheer as we passed. A little further down the canal were two masts &amp; a funnel of some sunken ship sticking up out of the water close to the Egyptian bank. The voyage along the canal was most interesting for on the Egyptian side trees &amp; grass grew in abundance while on the Arabian side there was nothing but a trackless dessert with absolutely no sign of vegitation whatever. Another very noticeable thing is the draw of water the ship causes at midship, for as the ship travelled along it would suck the water from the banks, making a difference of about two feet, then as the ship passed the water would resume its original height. We passed several big camps of Imperial Troops on both sides of the canal, also a couple of troop ships going in the opposite direction, these occasions always calling for a considerable amount of cheering from both lots of troops. The ship kept moving through the canal all that night, dropping anchor about 6.20 A.M. next morning about seven miles out from Port Suez. Things remained very quiet all that day with nothing to do except reading or sun baking, the only thing to break the monotony at all, being a couple of aeroplanes that kept flying about giving a fair display of aerial stunts. Next day the 24th of December, Xmas Eve was spent very much the same as the day before except for a few natives who came out to the ship in small boats selling souviners, but these did very little business on account of high prices they were asking. Xmas Day was a little different for about a hundred Light Horsemen &amp; several nurses were brought on board for space had been allowed for them when the ship left England. At 9.30 P.M. on Xmas night the anchor was lifted, the ship resuming its long journey to the delight of the troops. Next morning we had entered the Red Sea, land being visible on both sides so I spent the day in studying the coast line as there was nothing else to do. By this time we were experiencing some very hot weather but it was much nicer to endure than the winters that I had experienced in France for it was more home-like. During the 29th we passed a group of Islands called the Twelve Apostles &amp; late in the afternoon the Island of Perim or Hell's Gates as it is commonly called with its big lighthouse situated on its summit. On the 31st we passed along the coast of Africa, then late in the afternoon passed Cape Gardafewee the most easternly point of Africa which was soon lost to sight. By this time the sea was fairly heavy causing many of the boys to become sea sick but this only lasted for about twenty four hours. The monotony was broken next day the 1st of January by a Fancy Dress Parade following by an impromptu Ball on board which was a very amusing stunt. The next few days were spent very quiet &amp; uneventful but by this time the boys had formed a concert party which gave performances nearly every night, which was much appreciated by all for</p>