<p class="page" id="a5993088">[Page 88]</p>
<p>During the morning the battalion set off on the march the pace being exceptionally slow for the men were absolutely fagged out but kept going until we arrived at Halifax camp three miles away. On arriving at the camp the troops were allotted to huts &amp; it was not long dinner was issued after which most of the boys lay down for a sleep not being disturbed until late next morning. The stay lasted two days in this camp, the troops not being troubled with drill &amp; during that time everyone had a good hot bath &amp; a much needed change of underclothing. The next move took place during the 13th but luckily our packs &amp; blankets were carried by the motor transport which made the marching much easier for the boys. That day we went as far as Berthen where the battalion was put into barns for the night. Close to the billets was an Imperial School of Instruction &amp; through the grounds of the school ran a small creek which our boys made use of to wash in, much to the disgust of an Imperial Major who had several of our boys arrested for this washing but however our Colonel  soon had our boys released from the Imperial guard room. Next morning the 14th I was detailed with a train party having to march to Godesvaersvelde station where after a short wait we were put aboard a train which took as far as Eblinghem. On leaving the train the party was formed up in four then set off on the march to Le Nieppe a distance of about two miles where we joined the remainder of the battalion who had marched the whole way arriving at the destination before us. We were put into tents at this place &amp; as the weather was then getting cold we spent rather an uncomfortable night. Next morning after breakfast saw the battalion on the move again going as far as Heuringhem but as it was only a short distance the troops were able to enjoy a good rest at the end of the journey. The following day the battalion was marched to Assinghem where the whole of the battalion was billetted in an old paper mill. The mill at this time was out of order, being situated on the left bank of a river which had been locked at the mill for the purpose of driving the machinery by means of big wheels which were still in good order. There were plenty of fish in the river so the troops soon set to work throwing mills bombs into the water &amp; when they exploded would stun any fish within a certain radius causing them to float thus being way to catch. After tea that night several of us went for a walk to a couple of adjoining villages where we had a fairly decent time also being able to procure a good meal before returning. The stay at the mill lasted a couple of days &amp; during that time the troops had nothing to do so enjoyed a good rest. During the morning of the 18th we left Assinghem &amp; after a fairly long march was put into billets in the village of Senlis for the night. The next morning saw the battalion on the move once more when after marching about ten miles my platoon was put into an unoccupied house in the village of Halinghen where we were told the battalion would remain for at least a couple of weeks. Throughout the whole of this march which had lasted about a week the troops had been treated very well, for the packs &amp; blankets had been carried by the motor transport which had made the marching a pleasure compared with all previous marches. Halinghen was a very quiet little village away from the front line &amp; all signs of war being situated about ten miles south of Boulougne so thus it provided a good rest for the boys while the stay there lasted. The following morning the battalion received a pay the first for some time after which I was granted six hours leave to Boulougne which I much appreciated.</p>