<p class="page" id="a5993117">[Page 117]</p>
<p>During the next couple of days we experienced some very heavy seas in the Bay of Biscay which caused most of the boys on board to be sea sick. We passed several ships and a small Island during this period, also see Land away on the horizon on the morning of the 12th was however was soon out of sight. At 3 A.M. on the morning of the 15th the ship pulled in alongside Gibraltar but as it was then dark very little could be seen except hundreds of small lights which were burning in the Port Holes of the Rock. The stay here only lasted for about half an hour when the ship started to move again, following down along the Coast of Spain, the mountains of that country being visible from the deck for most of all the day. On going up on deck on the morning of the 16th the North East Coast of Africa could be seen &amp; we followed it along all that day experiencing beautiful weather which I noticed was becoming much warmer on account of nearing the Tropics. Next morning when I went on deck I saw several Islands on the starboard side, which however faded out of sight as the day wore one. The weather still remainder beautiful and other thing which struck the eye was the very blue waters of the Meditterranean Sea, also the sun set which is most beautiful in this sea &amp; the troops used to wait each evening to see it. During the 18th the ship passed very close to a big Island but not near enough to discern any movement on land. The next couple of days passed uneventful, but the voyage did not become monotonous as the troops were well supplied with all kinds of deck games, the sea also remaining quiet which mad things very pleasant. About mid-day on the 21st Port Said could be seen on the horizon straight ahead, but the distance was gradually lessened, the port becoming very discernable as the ship made its way onwards. On arriving at the outskirts of the Mine Field which guarded the Port, our ship slowered down until a Pilot boat came out to guide us through the mine field. By this time all the bots were decked out spick &amp; span in their uniforms with the hope of receiving leave when we arrived in Port for all were anxious to stretch their legs on land. On the way in several masts &amp; funnels could be seen sticking up out of the water belonging to vessels which had evidently been sunk or else had been purposely put under. Our ship finally dropped anchor right opposite the main landing stage, about eighty yards from shore and the troops were then informed that no leave would be granted to go ashore which caused a certain amount of dissatisfaction among the boys for they had all made up their minds to have a good time. It was then about 4.30 P.M. &amp; as soon as the ship was made fast dozens of natives came out in small boats selling curios, fruit, silks etc, and many an enjoyable moment was spent in chaffing the niggers who proved to be very shrewd business men. About three hundreds on our left lay the "Argyleshire", another of our "Carriers" laden with troops for home, which was being coaled by a large number of natives. From the ship could be seen the Monument which has been erected in honor of the famous who engineered the feat of the Suez Canal, also the Customs House, &amp; lines of ships waiting to go through the canal in their turn. After dark the troops procured rope ladders belonging to the ship and hung them over the stern, down which they climbed, self included into native boats which were waiting below to smuggle us ashore. Three other Sergeants &amp; myself spent several hours ashore having a fairly decent time which was very exceptable for it enable us to stretch our legs which were being to get stiff.  We had a goof look round the city mostly along the main streets for these were dirty enough without penetrating in the outskirts or the bye-ways &amp; lanes.</p>