<p class="page" id="a5993078">[Page 78]</p>
<p>many places small parks &amp; walks have been made being well layed out which added greatly to the beauty of the city. The city is practically surrounded by big hills &amp; from the tops of these good views were in abundance. After spending a very enjoyable days leave we returned to camp by taxi late that night when we turned into bunks. Next morning I received orders to proceed to Birkenhead with one man to act as escort to bring back a chap out of our battalion who had been caught in that city by the police being about with out leave. After having dinner I set out with the escort having to walk to Amesbury station to catch the train. The train left Amesbury about 3PM but it only took us as far as Salisbury where I found we had some time to wait for the London train. We passed the time away by going into Salisbury where we had tea then a walk round for a hour then made our way back to the station &amp; caught a fast train to London alighting at Waterloo station. On making enquiries at Waterloo I found that we could not proceed further until next morning so decided to make the best use of the time available so we took a tube for Leicester Square. After spending several pleasant hours in the heart of the big city we made our way out to Paddington to stay for the night for it was from here we resumed the journey next morning. After breakfast next morning we made our way to Paddington station where we caught a fast train at 10.30 for Birkenhead. It was not very long before London &amp; suburbs were left behind then our journey lay through beautiful country passing many big towns everything being most interesting to me for it was country that I had never seen before. The train took us up through the eastern parts of Wales where the scenery still retained its beauty the whole trip being most enjoyable &amp; a sight worth seeing. On arriving at Birkenhead I immediately made my way to the Civil police station where I was informed that the man I was sent for was there safely in the cells. As the train for London did not leave until late that night I decided to leave the prisoner in the hands of the police until the escort &amp; I went for a stroll round the town to pass the time away. When we had gone a short distance from the police station I learned from a sailor that the H.M.A.S. Melbourne was in dock at Birkenhead so having a mate aboard this ship we at once set out to find it. On investigating I eventually found out that the Melbourne was in Cammell Lairds dry dock so made our way there, where after inquiries my mate was sent for &amp; was soon on the spot. It was some time before we obtained leave to go aboard the ship for several detec3tives were stationed at the entrance of the dock who asked us several questions so as to prove our identity. The ship was under going a general overhauled also being fitted with a new crows nest mast &amp; a Mine Shield which was a long piece of steel on the nose which could easily be blown off should it strike a mine without damaging the ship also several other improvements. Everything was very interesting aboard especially the Guns &amp; torpedo deck where I spent some time in having a look round. We had tea aboard among the sailors who were as interested in us as we were in them for they would ask us questions about the army then compare them with the navy &amp; in this way I spent a very pleasant time. After tea I was taken to an adjoining dock where I was shewn a big floating crane which had recently been captured from the Huns whilst enroute to South America from Germany. The above is all that could be found out about the crane so after having a look at it we decided to make our way into the town with my mate off the ship to celebrate the occasion. After having a look round for a while we reported to the police station for our prisoner who gave his word that he would not attempt to escape but would go back to camp with us without any trouble.</p>