<p class="page" id="a5993121">[Page 121]</p>
<p>where we had to wait until daylight, when a very heavy fog came up thus delaying our entrance for it was well into the morning before we were taken inside then lay off Williamstown under quarantine. That afternoon a medical officer came on board &amp; after examining the troops declared the ship free from Influenza, but we remained at anchor in the same position all that night. At 8 A.M. next day the ship pulled into a wharf where the Victorians &amp; Tasmanians were immediately taken off. As soon as these troops were clear of the ship all the troops who remained on board were given leave (at 11 A.M.) into the city until mid-night the following day. Accompanied by a mate, I made my way by a coach to the City where we had a look round for a while, then went out to St Kilda where we had a swim, then took a look round the side shows there, returning to the City for the night. Next morning there was very little doing in the city, so again made our way to St Kilda where we spent the morning then during the afternoon hired a Taxi &amp; went out to Flemington &amp; District for a look round returning to the ship about mid-night. The ship untied at 6 A.M. next morning then after leaving the harbour &amp; saying farewell to Melbourne, was soon making straight for Sydney. It took four days to complete this last lap of the voyage, the ship following along the coast the whole time pulling inside Sydney Heads during the late afternoon of the 13th February then made straight for Watsons Bay &amp; dropped anchor. The feeling of being so near home was quite indiscribable for I knew that barring accidents it would not be very long before I was among my people &amp; I kept trying to picture home with all the brooding excitement which I knew would be there, all anxiously awaiting the news to be published as to when we would disembark. There was very little sleep for anyone on board that night for excitement reigned supreme which was much assisted by the Ferries for each would give a whistle as it passed mingled with cheers of their passengers who were being transported to the different parts of the Harbour in that direction. The next morning broke with a clear sky and a beautiful sun &amp; directly after breakfast a medical officer came on board then after an examination declare the ship free of infectious diseases which meant we would be allowed to disembark that day. It was not long before our good ship started to move up the Harbour and on arriving off Woollomooloo was taken in hand by two Tugs which towed us into No 1 Wharf Woollomooloo where the ship tied up &amp;  the troops started to disembark immediately. As I waited my turn to go off the ship the inward excitement grew until it was practically unbearable, for I was soon to be taken to a place yet unknown to ne, &amp;  kept wondering who would be there to meet me. However I was not kept in suspense very long for I was soon speeding along in a motor to the Anzac Buffet where it was not long before I was among all whom I loved &amp; were so dear &amp;  near to me, a thing I had often dreamed of while at the War, yet only very faint hopes of it becoming true. Within the next couple of hours I was Home a ne'r to be forgotten day for it was then I realized more than ever in my life before what "Home" in a free country meant. A week later I had to report to Randwick Hospital where I was given a final Medical Examination and I asked to be reccommended for my discharge from the army which I eventually received on the 4th of April 1919 after Three 233 days service with the Australian Imperial Forces.</p>