<p class="page" id="a5993120">[Page 120]</p>
<p>The voyage across the "Bight" lasted four days during which time the sea remained fairly calm but the boys became more serious each day preparing for the meeting of their "Loved Ones". During the later part of the afternoon of the 28th we arrived at the Semaphore outside the Outer Harbour, Adelaide, dropping anchor some distance off the land, the ship being placed under strict quarantine before dark. Next morning the Commanding Officer informed the troops that we had been placed under quarantine for seven days, and asked the boys to take things in the proper spirit. This information caused a big depressed feeling to envelope the ship for it appeared to every man that they were not wanted home after their experiences on the other side. The South Australians soon became uneasy for it hurt being so close to home &amp; not able to get there so they organised themselves then sent messages ashore demanding to be released for it seemed absurd being kept at sea when no signs of Influenza was on board. The troops belonging to other states caught a shark, about fourteen feet long, off the stern of the ship which was successfully hauled aboard, causing some excitement for a couple of hours. The next day the troops became very troublesome, owing to no signs of getting ashore, threatening to take charge of the ship if something definite was not done in this direction. At dusk, under three leaders, the troops made an attempt to take charge &amp; as soon as they started the Captain started to put to sea, but before going very far was detained by the shore Authorities with a promise of something being done on the morrow. The next morning after breakfast two Tugs arrived with instructions to convey the troops ashore to Torrents Island which is the Quarantine station. After the tugs had done several trips those who wished to go ashore were taken. This satisfied the boys to a great extent for the trip was very nice passing through the Outer Harbour, then along the Torrents River to the Island taking about an hour to do the trip. On the Island the troops had to go through an Inhalation Chamber after which they were at liberty to walk about where they liked, also being looked after by the Red Cross who supplied hot drinks, cake &amp; fruit. The South Australians were allowed to remain on the Island but the other troops were taken there each morning then returning to the ship late in the afternoon. During the afternoon of the 3rd the quarantine was lifted, then the ship weighed anchor then pulled into No 1 Wharf at the Outer Harbour where it tied up then started to discharge cargo. That night the Troops on board were given a big dinner, in one of the big Customs Sheds, by the Red Cross which was a very creditable honor being much appreciated by all the boys. A Concert &amp; Picture Show followed the dinner providing a very pleasant evening for there was plenty of room thus allowing everyman the full opportunity of seeing &amp; hearing everything. Next day the 4th of February we were given leave into Adelaide being conveyed to the city by a special train which left the wharf at 9 A.M. On arriving in the city we were met by motor cars &amp; Trams supplied by the Red Cross to show our boys over the city. Adelaide is an extremely pretty place, well laid out, &amp; provided a real good days outing for the boys were given free meals accompanied by a continuous entertainment in one of the big Halls this also being arranged by the Red Cross. That night a mate &amp; I decided to finish up with a trip to the Majestic theatre, after which we returned to the ship about midnight more than satisfied with the day. At 7 A.M. next morning the ship untied then pulled out into the stream where it was soon on the move for Melbourne. We arrived out side Port Melbourne during the night of the 6th</p>