 [Page 390] 
 in the pasture blue" her benign smile contrasted strangely with the expression I remember on Mrs Patrick Campbell's dial when as Lady Macbeth she says "O what a terrible night I've spent" (please verify quotation) 
 I went back next day to have a look at our digs. One side of the building was levelled &ndash; to the ground &ndash; a mass of bricks and rubbish. Our glorious bed was riddled and covered with bricks and tiles, "Psyche at the Bath" a full page caricature of a fat woman from  the  "Le Sourire" hanging on the milk separator at the back of our heads had been indiscreetely wounded. This war isn't a bit particular. You should see the hole clean through my water color box "Some Souvenir!" 
 There's a "digger" shaking hands with "nurse" as he leaves the hospital on his way back up the line".  "Good luck and  come back again " she says with a laugh. 
 Yesterday I posted you a field service post card. There were no green envelopes. About a week or so ago a hurried and jumbled note late at night about a french book "Le Bandeau" that I ordered to be posted to you from Ed. Mignot 78 Bd. St. Michel Paris. I had not  already  read it  and at the time but was carried away by the charming illustrations. Felicien Champsaur the author &ndash; Great Scot well I'll give him credit for even shocking Me! Should you get it. Hell you know the drawings  are good . Otherwise c'est trop "pollison" or is it one l and two s's. My dictionary's lost. I do hope you got the French books I posted you about two months ago.  I shall be  Dear one I hope I hav'nt been too dramatic with my letter. Should you think any of it of use for the Mail or Bully use it but I feel people must be sick of descriptions by this time. Best wishes to Jen Jack the Duffies and all good friends. Love and kisses forever and ever and ever from your Vasco who loves you all the time xxxxxxxxxx 
 [Mrs Patrick Campbell (Beatrice Stella Tanner Campbell), 1865-1940, British actor, who played Eliza Doolittle in the first production of Pygmalion by George Bernard Shaw. Felicien Champsaur, 1858-1934, French novelist and journalist. "polisson" &ndash; naughty.] 
 