L?Armee Post
27/5/16
Received orders to move down to L?Armee Post and relieve "D" Co. Early morning parade called in one blanket from each man leaving them now only with one each. It is the official summer but all the same it is chilly work sleeping with only one these nights. 
Carried on with usual drill after breakfast and at 10 am left for La Vesee to have a look over the ground I am to occupy in case of need. Went round through Armentieres and noticed that the New Z. are very slack. 
Went to postcard shop and found mademoiselle in good form and like a good sales girl pointed out the many good points in the goods for sale. Pictures by Kirchnor Heroweard were also in stock many of them ingeniously indecent and suggestive. Mademoiselle pointed out emphatically where the "point" was each time. Through the city down to L?Armee found the billet not s
to bad the officers being put up at a shop and the men in rooms and attics.
Returned to Rue Dorinoire and spent the afternoon asleep. Moved off for L?Armee with the company at 7 and relieved Mackay. All bustle. Transport brought all our gear and rations along correctly. The old dame poured out very voluble French at me explaining her experiences when the Germans were here and what they did. Beaucoup bombardment". 
Posted guards and issued orders prohibiting any lights. Some shells going into Armentieres when we came down and they were bombarding at our aeroplanes. The shells were bursting like big stars spangling the sky but the planes got away alright. There were several up and the bursts looked very pretty.
Batmen got to work again and soon had all comfortable in the billet here. Arranged fatigues. 70 men start work at 3 am tomorrow morning and work till 9 and then another 70 go on duty. 60 men from "B" Coy report tomorrow to furnish a third shift.
Took Glasscock off Coy clerk today put Wherrett on. Transferred Trevena to No 9 where discipline wants tightening up. L/Cpl Smyth reverts at his own request. The number of cold footers hanging round and the unnecessary waste of troops who never hear a bullet, all loafing about behind the firing line makes one sick.