bombarded the Turks on their last attempt to capture canal. Painted in peculiar manner, closed effects. Launches and boats manned by naval men, all armed with machine Guns. Saw aeroplane make a flight to observe the Turks who are building a Railway across the desert. Turks said to be only about 20 miles away, so every chance of a "scrap" close ahead. Passed French Monitor, Crew lined up and cheered as we passed. Buoys along Canal. Big flock of gulls followed boat along for scraps of food thrown overboard. Distance from Ismalia about 20 miles. P O Boat passed, passengers lined up and cheered as they went by.
5th week.
Wednesday 15		Serapeum Camp
Very cold last night. "Royal George" loaded with troops passed. Plenty of traffic along canal, boats passing every few minutes. Watching camels loading very interesting. Sikks, Ghurkas, Bombay Lancers all in same camping ground. Surveyors at work setting out ground for road on both sides of canal.
5
December 1915.
Two steam rollers landed, Hard work all day unloading Red Cross Stores. Hot dinner, first decent meal for 3 days. Bugle and trumpet calls "entout until further notice. Boats travelling along canal at night have big searchlights and travel very slowly. Naval Picket boats up and down canal with Machine Guns.
Thursday 16.
On special Picket guarding stores, Rather cold. Had day off, went fishing, but caught none, C. Section departed for Ismalayi. "Ceramic" passed towards Port Said loaded with troops.
Friday 17. 
Route March to Tusum. Very heavy walking through sand. Passsed by where Turks attacked Canal. Saw grave of officer, also dug outs and trenches. Huts and harness and machinery which was used when Canal was being cut. Captain Wooster arrived. Pitched tortoise tent. Had swim in canal. Rotten tea. "Shadow Soup" and Biscuits.
Saturday 18th
Stretcher drill. Carried patient two miles through the desert, ankle deep in sand, jolly hard work. Afternoon off. Had swim in canal, also did some washing. French passenger boat passed, band struck up "Marseillaise". Passengers delighted.
Sunday 19th.
Received letter from Lill. Hooray. Cooks fatigue. Bacon for breakfast. Carting water with Camels. A section left for outpost duty.
Monday 20th. 
Lecture in morning "The Skeleton" by Captain Wooster. Route march past outpost. Saw trenches and dugouts. Captain Wooster took photo, of Graves of Lieut. R.A. Fitz Gibbson and 3 Indian soldiers of the 128th Pioneers. Glorious weather.
Tuesday 21st. 
Physical jerks before breakfast. Medicine ball. Bacon on again. Had good Breakfast. Indian mountain battery crossed Canal for outpost duty. Fine body of men. Party of Arabs told off for duty on other side of canal. Evidently they did not like the idea, as it required their persuasive powers of an armed Indian guard to drive them on to the punt. Told off as sanitary inspector to oversee the work of Arabs, 22 of whom form a fatigue party. They are paid 6 P.T. per day per man.
Actually rained for a few minutes. Unloading stores from Punt, Xmas goods purchased with profits from cant. Canteen profits 32.