Croix Blanche
About 4.00 a.m. the rest of us in B.section got Sgt. Mathieson to ask the Col. to let us go out. As soon as he gave the word, we got our water bottles and field dressing pouches, grabbed a piece of bread, and bacon and got off in one of the ambulances. The wounded were beginning to arrive and everybody (even the batmen) was working at top speed. We got out to the 15 F.A. Dress (Eden Hall) Station about 5, and what a sight it was. Shells were bursting in every direction and as far as one could see the wounded were strung out along the road. Some on stretchers, some crawling or hobbling along using timber out of the trenches as crutches. Some of the poor beggars were terribly wounded yet they never murmured and some of ?em were even cracking jokes. We reported to Major Williams who said, "Ha, Right O lads, you are just come in time, the R.S.B.'s are absolutely knocked up and you can relieve ?em. This meant going right out to the front line trenches which was very very lively, and badly knocked about by the Hun shells. 
I've been made to feel small before, but on hearing the Major say this I positively shrivelled up. Tom Davies was at the other end of the stretcher. We went along to the firing line, both of us too full for words. There was plenty of work to do, as the wounded were lying about in hundreds, so we picked up the first one we came to, he was badly wounded in the stomach and every move caused his agony. It was an awful trip back to the D.S. In places the trenches were blown up and we had a job to be by with the stretcher. It was about 2  miles from the front line trench to the D.S. and with a 12 stone man for a load it was mighty hard work. What a different tale was told this morning. Our lads got into the 3rd Line trench alright, but the Hun guns made ?em too hot to hold and they had to retire back to their own starting point. We passed some of the 30th coming out of the trenches and I asked a good number if they?d seen Peter H. but none of ?em had, and I was just beginning