Tuesday Oc.31st
We were mighty pleased to see the sun rise this morning, so that we could get out and stretch our cramped limbs. "Snowy" was very sick all night with pains in his stomach, and Stan Wright is near dead with a cold. Billsy's back is bad, and I am feeling anyhow myself. So our squad is in a bad way. The Doctor sent Snowy, Joy Koller, and a No. of others back to camp, sick, so we are getting a smaller crowd every day. We took our first case in about 6 a.m. Billsy and I on the Sledge Jack McIlwain was riding the Horse. All went well till we came to a bridge over the sap, which broke and Mac and his mount fell into the sap. Billsy had a good grip on the sledge, otherwise the whole lot, patient and all, would have gone in. Some Inf. Chaps were near by and they gave us a hand to get the horse out. Mac hurt his knee a bit, so took the patient right through to A.D.S. We had a snack of B.B. Bread when we returned but couldn't get a drink of tea, as it was not safe to light a fire, It was a beautiful clear morning and we could see the Church tower in Bapanme quite distinctly. Just after breakfast Fritz bombarded very heavily, and the shells were flying thick and fast around our dug-outs. A party of R.F.A. were just passing when a shell dropped right in amongst ?em killing 3 and wounding one. Hippersly grabbed a stretcher and made over towards them, closely followed by Blue" Riley, I was standing next to Blue, so had to follow him, although the shells were still flying. Billsy May also came along and we brought in one R.F.A. who was still alive, and one of our Inf. Chaps who got a nasty wound in the leg. The poor old R.F.A. man breathed his last, just as we got him to the M.D.'s dug-out. He was practically blown to pieces. The bags of rations were blown some distance away, but we managed to salvage a loaf and a tin of jam, which came in very handy as our rations were very low. The 14th F. Amb. relieved us about 1 p.m. then we went on to Fleurs the next Post, where there is a good dug-out, which our squad soon took possession of. There are