We got our patient on the stretcher  and started off along the sap. We struggled along for about 100 yds then we decided to go "over the top which was well in sight of Fritz. The Lieut. Was shot through the Lung and was in great pain, poor beggar. We carried him shoulder high. The Tommies followed behind us with another stretcher case. Just before we left the R.A.P. one of the orderlies brought out a revolver and put on the stretcher. "That's not mine" said the Officer. Right oh" said I I'll keep this as a souvenir. We got a long very well, dodging shell holes and wire like old hands. The Shells were bursting every where but we arrived safely and handed our patient over to Doherty Mac and Co. who carried him the next stage. He said "do you leave me here and when we said "yes" he said "Thanks very much" as though he thought we?d done him a good turn by carrying him. We then returned to our dug-out where the Tommies made a bit of a fire. We hadn't eaten anything since 6.30 a.m. and were jolly hungry. We fossicked around in the dug outs near by and discovered a lease of Bully Beef and a tin of biscuits, also a tablet of tea, milk and sugar. We found some water, besides to with this we had quite a decent feed. Billsy" May and I went looking for Souvenirs and found several tins of tobacco, so we are right for a smoke now. There are a number of our big guns near us and Fritz keeps shelling around in search of ?em. It is 5 o'clock now and no signs of our relief coming. Just before we had a snack and drink of "so called" tea we saw a fine dual between one of ours and a taube our side won and down came the Taube to the ground. A little while after another Taube came sailing over and our A.A. Guns scored a direct hit, and hit him fair in the middle. The framework came down to the ground in zig zag style and the wings were floating about in the air for a good few minutes before falling. It was mighty cold and we were almost finished. Our relief party arrived about 6 p.m. We were jolly glad to see ?em and thought "Oh we are right for a feed and sleep now, but we were awfully disappointed to find that we had to stay on till midnight at the next post. We got a few cases, and it was jolly hard work carrying through mud up to our knees. We can only travel a mile an hour and the poor devils of patients are on the stretchers for about 5 hours before reaching the A.D.S. It commenced to rain just before we left and the going was murderous. We kept falling out of one shell hole into another. Most of the holes are full of water and we all got wet through. The 14th F.A. relieved us and only arrived 2 hours late. It is about 3 
miles back to our A.D.S. and we arrived back there about 4 a.m. mud up to our necks and wet through to the skin. Serg. Hughes issued us with a good lot of rum which put new life into us. We got to the place where we slept last night, and found the tent pulled down and our packs and blankets out in the rain, so we had to crawl in under a stack of boxes which is used as a collecting station for wounded and slept there the