Sunday Oct. 22 The Somme
Turned out at 6 Had a snack of bread and jam and then 25 of us made away to the trenches. B.Sec. as usual leading the way. It was very cold but was fairly good walking as the ground was frozen hard. The bombardment never ceases, Guns are banging way day and night. As there were not enough of us to take over the posts the 98th came with us, and we had 2 stretcher parties 1 of the 98th and 1 of ours at each post. Stan Wright, Billsy May Snowy Atherton, and I went out to the furthest post, up near the trenches. We had an old German dugout for our quarters and considering it had gone through such a strenuous time, is in fairly good condition. Fritz can certainly show us points in making dug-outs. This one is about 30 feet deep, with steps right down to the bottom and there is room for about 8 men to sit or 3 or 4 to sleep. They are absolutely shell proof unless of course a shell lobbed right inside. How our chaps ever got the huns out is simply marvellous. We were told when we left H.W. that we would be relieved in 4 hours so brought no rations with us not even our water bottles. We never imagined it possible for anyone to suffer from thirst in this wet country. All the shell holes are full of water, but we are forbidden to drink it. About 2 p.m. a Reg. S.B. arrived with a note to send out 2 stretcher squads to the R.A.P. near the front trenches as the R.S.B's were all knocked out. The Tommies "bucked at the idea as their M.D. had given them orders not to go into the front, but as we had not been told anything about it, our party went along and the Tommies party came also. What a trip it was (so called) trenches are only 3 or 4 ft. high in places and the mud is up to the knees. We floundered along for about an hour. The poor devils of Infantry deserve all the praise for winning this war, as they live in regular hell every minute they put in the trenches. The path are very narrow and it is very difficult for 2 men to pass. The S.B. who was with us to the R.A.P. said "this last 200 yds is very hot so when I give the word" follow me for your lives" Stan Wright was first, I was next and "Snowy and Billsy came behind. It was a sprint of about 150 yds and we must have covered it in record time. The R.A.P. is an old Hun dugout, 2 stones deep and 3 or 4 rooms in each storey. A beauty. The M.O. was mighty glad to see us and was surprised to find out that we were Aus". which of you is freshest? asked the M.O. We are Why? Said S. H. Wright. "Never mind "Why" said the M.O. I'm just going to show you. Then he showed us our patient. Then he showed us our patient. A young guard of an Art. Office about 6 ft. and must have weighed about 13 stone. No wonder the M.O. asked "who was the freshest" Just outside the dug-out was a big pool of blood and one of the R.S.B's informed us that a bearer had been blown to pieces there last night. So no wonder they were in such a hurry to get away.