Wednesday 8th November
Last night we slept well, as we had plenty of Blankets to keep us warm. A despatch rider dashed in during the night and took away Laycock "on leave" Lucky devil. It is pouring in rain. We had a very good breakfast Bacon, Jam, Tea, and actually bread. Now we are wondering whats going to happen next. The trumpets are "in action" at this camp and it seems quite like old times to hear the familiar calls. There are thousands of German Prisoners working on the roads about here. Wrote a few lines on a P.C. to B.E. but don't know whether it will get through or not. Wish I could write a letter. Some rotter took my best pair of socks out of my pack and I only have one pair of socks left now. Rations are very short here. B.B. B. is about all we have got. This is a Rest Camp. We are certainly giving our stomachs a rest. The rum issue is all there is to keep us alive. We had Dry Biscuits for Tea a few lucky ones had a little jam left from Dinner. After tea we had a bit of a sing song. We were just settling down to sleep when Bricky Howard, passed a rude remark to McDougall. We hopped out of bed to smack him and Bricky hopped out to repel the attack. Tim Mooney held the lamp, so they could see to smite each other. It was the funniest thing in the world and the mob roared with laughter. In the 2nd round Bricky's underpants slipped down and tripped him. He also fell into the fire. On rising he threw his under pants off and carried on the battle stark naked. The battle lasted about 5 rounds, then the fighters went to bed.
Thursday 9th
Reveille at 7. Break at 7.30 Beans and Bacon and Biscuits we have almost forgotten what Bread tastes like. A party of us were road making. Bricky and I took a stroll into ALBERT about a mile away. It is in a bad way owing to the Bombardment. The Church is very fine - whats left of it. There are plenty of civilians in the town, who keep, small shops where one can purchase post cards and a few other things. We were almost broke but managed to rake up 6d to pay for 2 jam tins of coffee at a cottage. We visited the cemetery and saw a party of Canadians fixing up some headstones to the graves of their comrades. One Board had about 100 names on it officers and men. There are all sorts of soldiers in the town. Canadians, Scotties, African's Australians Etc. We got back to camp just in time for dinner. B.B. Bd. Potatoes. After dinner we did more roadmaking, about 3 Robby, our dashing Q.M. arrived conveyed the Cols greetings told us we were shortly to return to the firing line and took down a list of our equipment shortages, which was a mighty long one. They informed us we could write short letters, which is the most cheerful news we've had for a long time. For Tea we had tea and biscuits. Our clothes are beginning to hang very loose, on account of us losing weight.
Friday Novem. 10th
 One year ago today I kissed M.S. goodbye, and the gallant 8th sailed from Melbourne. The heads informed us today that we could write short letters to which we all say "Hooray" as it is the biggest hardship of the lot not being able to write. I wrote a letter to L. the first one since Oct.12. Poor old Girl will wonder what is wrong. We were roadmaking all day, which ought to keep us in good form for stretcher bearing. After Tea we had a sing song to celebrate the Anniversary of leaving Australia.