
a dead french woman.
Thursday Oct. 10thTook the guard to fill water cart from a well 100 ft. deep (Hard work).  Packed up after dinner.  I had to wait behind and pack cooks cart with spare gear, left Montbrehian and went across country outside some towns, saw more dead than I could count.  After travelling a couple of hours, the driver found out he was lost, I with two others went to try and find the lines, when we got back found he had cleared out, we then wandered round until dark, we  we got a dose of gas, then camped in a farm house in some straw without blankets, got tea from some Yanks.
Friday Oct. 11thOn the road again 6 a.m. found H.Q. lines and had a cup of tea, then wandered on until we found some mates, had breakfast with them, then on again until we found the battery lines at Busigny, I was then put on cooking again, one of the cooks went on leave to "blighty".  Plenty vetegables growing near us, living high on them.10-30 p.m.  Fritz started shelling all round us, wounded two men, killed five horses and wounded eleven, smashed two wheels on a wagon, kept up the shelling for over an hour, one landed not twenty yds. from my dug out.
Saturday Oct. 12thCleared out to new wagon lines after dinner, put in a quiet night for a change.  Rained all night.
Sunday Oct. 13thJust before dinner Fritz put over a barrage in front of us.  The 42nd had 16 horses killed by shells so shifted their lines.  W. Lewis came back from leave.
Monday Oct. 14thA glorious morning, our planes very busy, so is Fritz with his antis.  During afternoon saw a good "box on" between some planes, one of ours came down.
Tuesday Oct. 15thPut in a quiet day.
Wednesday Oct. 16thRained all night and morning.  After dinner went over to a german coal dump in search of a stove, but missed.
Thursday Oct. 17thA fresh attack was made on Fritz.  A very foggy morning.  Got eleven letters from Aussie.
Friday Oct. 18thAnother attack opened.  Tommies got knocked back.  Moved off to a new position.  Passed a batch of prisoners.
Saturday Oct. 19thAnother thick fog.  Started raining during afternoon.  A Yankee band is camped alongside us, played some good music.