 i 
  A PREFACE . 
  Yesterday and Today . 
 (Written During the Earliest Days of 1930) 
    Today we can look back upon the year 1929 and upon its war-novels, each v y  ie ing with the others to relate with the most gruesome detail, revolting and vulgar phases of war, grim stories of fear and horror, or should I use the term - cowardice, for that to me is the unnamed theme of these so-called realistic stories. 
   
    Is it that memory, like the sundial, records only "Sunny hours?"  That now as I look back past the ten or eleven busy years that I find difficulty in recalling anything gruesome in my service which was throughout as an Infantry Platoon Commander, Scout Officer ,  and Raider, and Company Commander.  I peer back into the past and recall mainly the romance, travel, adventure and best of all fellowship with many choice comrades, many of whom "Went West", fellowship of which I thank God, I can still claim a continuance, for my best friends are ex-service men. 
   
    In these ex-Service men I find a realiability, a sense of honour, and an appreciation still of the ideals of unselfish service to both individual and community. 
   
    But to return to the gruesome, I must have seen it all, perhaps I saw so much that the nerves became accustom-ed to horror, but I believe that interest, interest in the work in hand, interest in my comrades, and a real intention to do my part carried the mind past the horror and on to the objective. 
   
    That the gruesome is not to be found in these letters is easily explained, they were written to home-folk (apart from the personal and affectionate correspondence) with the idea of offsetting newspaper sensationalism and though true in every detail are of course designed to allay anxiety and when dangers are described they are "Dangers Passed." 
   
    All my letters are not copied here, the personal are omitted and unfortunately some of the descriptive ones have been lost. 
   
    The originals are interesting, even the paper upon 
