 a5763055.html 
 43 
 -2- 
 for 'twas short but interesting and it is doubtful if anyone could have crowded any more into the time than we four did.  We were four Lieuts. Moore & Latchford of our Regiment and Lieut Hancox from N.Z., and myself; all from the Hayling Island school.  Late work Friday night and very early Saturday morn, earning or perhaps paying for the next few hours of liberty. 
   
    Then at 1.20 p.m. away we went from The Royal  ^  Hotel  crossed the narrow neck of water by ferry, took cab and electric tram and were very soon in Portsmouth.  There I visited the birthplace of Charles Dickens and saw as well the sofa on which he pegged out.  Then the famous "Victory," Nelson's flagship lying out in midstream, to which we were rowed, our little boat winding in and around all sorts of craft mainly war-vessels, mine-sweepers, light cruisters, destroyers, and even close to submarines up on the stocks for repairs, but the greatest wonder of all is the tiny torpedo boat, without funnel, manned by a crew of four and two officers, their motors generate a speed of 42 miles per hour and Britain is said to possess 1,000 of them.  They are used around the coast and frequently larger vessels carry several on their decks launching when they need some mosquitoes to worry an enemy. 
   
    Glad to have been on the Victory, to have trodden her plank even although they are restored and not the ones Nelson trod.  "Here Nelson Fell" reads a brass plate and under that plate about eight inches by six inches by two inches is a portion of the original deck.  "Here Nelson Died" and right down below the water-line is a little shrine dimly lit by horn lanterns.  It was here that operations took place; patients being stupefied by rum, limbs being sawn off and the stumps seared and dipped in pitch.  Grim, eh! 
   
    In the river were boats trimly built, gentlemen's steam-yachts once, now patrol boats with their wicked guns, some now mine sweeping and some again are "Mystery Ships." 
   
    Up on the stocks I saw the fastest schooner-yacht in the world, the "Marguerite."  Then a walk through Portsmouth town and a tramride to its waterside suburb Southsea, where from the Clarence Pier we took an excursion steamer to Ryde on the Island of Wight.  Arriving just at dark we took a penny car from pierhead to shore, and camped for the night on that Espalnade Hotel, that is all that I have time to write just now, perhaps on Sunday or Saturday afternoon I will tell of our trip through the island, success at the school, and a call at Southampton on our way back. 
    With love, 
       Harold Peters. 
  Charles H Peters  [signature]  
  Capt  
  38 th  Bn  A.I.F.  
      
