 a5763173.html 
 136. 
 -2- 
 singing, at night after a day's work digging earthworks near the line they would sit and lie about their billets alternating some very ribald songs with grand sacred airs.  A favourite was called "Aberysyth" - I don't know how to spell it but that should be nearly right, even their officers would break out into this Grand sacred piece at any odd time  or moment. 
    Oh yes!  they were as fine hearty lot of lads and their regiment had been on Gallipoli with our lads and was part of a division with which the "Aussies" are always proud to be associated.  This year they seemed to have been in almost every big show, including Cambrai, and of the two battles of Cambrai I heard all full accounts from the participants. 
    When I joined them I had almost lost my voice from cold [ note in margin:  actually  gas.]   ^  & living at that time in the Hyde Park Corner Catacombs  and spoke only in a kind of rumbling whisper, for we had just come from the trenches, but after a few days with them and especially so after a few days in a comfortable town billet I began to cure the cold and to regain my voice, now I am quite right again, voice quite up to parade ground work and cough departed. 
    While with them I reconnoitred some trenches on cap-tured ground, ground which the 38th helped to take last year while I was at Le Havre ^   when posted for two months to the Central Training School (G.H.Q) as Scouting & Raiding Officer.   I was very keen to see them and was really glad when my duties took me there and also to a famous shell-blasted town  ^  Ypres  which has been connected with the history of this war from the start to the present day.    After ten days however, one of the heads wrote from my division wrote to get me back, the English Division wanted to keep me longer and I wanted to see the show through, but "orders is orders", and so back I came, rejoining my own regiment in a very nice spot back in Rural France,  Resting , that of course means 
