 a5763223.html 
 M 
 182 
  COPY .            H.P.1047. 
   
  NOTES.  re. RAIDS . 
   
  DETAILS WHICH MUST RECEIVE ATTENTION.  
   
 It must be definitely understood that once a raid is launched very little can be done to help it; therefore all the help must be given before the operation by complete perfect plans, expert training, the best available equip-ment, and a carefully selected personnel both officers and men.  When all these points are cared for, only a most unfortunate chance can bring a failure; if. however, they are neglected, only the rare chance can make it a success. 
   
 The decision to raid should only be taken with a definite objective, which would include locality; choice must be based upon the situation, possibility of rapid approach, and complete information, the latest aeroplane maps and thorough reconnaissance being of the highest importance. 
   
  Supremacy of N.M.L. must be secured before any raid may be undertaken . 
   
 Ruses and diversions are a big factor in success.  A poor diversion or one that is quite plainly a diversion is worse than none.  Originality, if possible, is desired. 
   
  FIRST STAGE : 
   
  Wire-Cutting .  A consistent scheme should be in constant operation as part of the normal offensive; therefore when wire is to be cut for a Raid it is not considered by the enemy as a warning to prepare for an attack.  Saps when cut are to be kept open by Lewis Guns and Machine Guns firing occasionally on the enemy wire during the darkness, disturb-ing and taking casualties from enemy wiring party. 
   
 On Z-Day (day of operation) the gap must be carefully ob-served through an Artillery periscope and if partially closed again cut.  This may be done by day or even during the first phase of the bombardment. 
   
  Reconnaissance :  Of great importance - to commence as soon as the locality is declared and continued until required information is received and many of the officers and party leaders as well as scouts have observed their points and path through NO MAN'S LAND.  Written reports should be required and a map of NO MAN'S LAND prepared; the natural tendency to generalize and exaggerate must be discouraged; only  facts  are required.  Reconnaissance should also be made of the British C.T's & Front Line to be used during operation, also width of parapet, borrow ditch, and our own wire. 
