a5763220.html
179
-3-
(Patrols)  Continued.
 
   Waterproof crawling suits are noisy and therefore specially dangeroous when the patrol approaches the enemy.
 
   Patrol before leaving the trench will definitely warn all the posts, stating number of men, time of exit, place of exit, objective, time and place of return and password and countersign - Be sure that this has passed before making exit.
 
   Leaving trenches must be done with caution, through sal lyport if one - If over parapet choose broken part, keep low, move quickly through own wire, take up formation and proceed toward objective at once.
 
   Leave vicinity of home trench quickly for that is most dangerous spot in No Man's Land.  Always maintain touch - a broken patrol very dangerous to itself.  Stop, look, and listen very frequently, the ears will tell ou of all movement in No Man's Land in your vicinity, also much that is happening at a distance, say in enemy trench.
 
   How to Use Shell Holes:
 
   Dont get in except in cases of the greatest emergency - Reason  If waterlogged, noisy and sticky - perhaps wired up, gooseberries, perhaps bomb trap at bottom - when crawling in and out over raised lip you are exposed, but if you crawl round it you make best use of cover the lip provides.
 
   Test a Shell Hole by throwing into it a piece of mud about the size of a Mills Bomb - if occupied this will induce movement as the Bosche will get out - if no movement is made hole may be passed as unoccupied or closer investigation made (N.Z. idea.)
 
   Action Under Verey Lights:  Watch for light going up and get down before it bursts.  Get down always except when movement is imposs-ible.  Remember you have got a chance to get down even in first glare.  If caught standing keep face down and very steady, but even then you may be seen from a flank, so watch for lights and get down.
 
   Under Searchlights.  You must get down and remain down sometime after it passes over you, for enemy frequently snaps light back if suspicious.
 
   Wire-Cutting.  When cutting enemy wire lie on back, thus see strands against sky.  Have stop on the cutters muffled, cut near posts, do not allow loose end to slip back but bury it.  A wirecutting job should be done and used on one night, otherwise it may be noted and place well watched.
 
   Crawling high in wet ground, place knee on spot where hand has previously rested.  When crawling low avoid elevating the behind, this is a frequent mistake.
 
 
