 a5763224.html 
 183 
 -2- 
 Observation by day through Artillery periscopes should be carried out by Officers, party leaders and scouts. 
   
  Our Own Trenches .  All British Trenches to be used during the operations to be repaired so that assembly may be silent, unobserved and unimpeded. 
   
  Registration  by Artillery and Trench Mortars to be carried at the earliest possible moment and to be done unobtrusively as part of a destructive shoot. 
   
  LAST STAGE . 
   
 All vital equipmment as Traverser Bridges, telephones with wires and reels, flares and signals, demolition charges and ammunition must be tested prior to use under conditions approximating service required.  Dry Primers should not be placed into wet guncotton slabs in the demolition boxes until z day. 
   
 Mills Hand Grenades and other bombs to be inspected by Brigade or Battalion Bombing Officer and detonated on Z-Day or Z-1 Day under his supervision. 
   
 Properly concealed dumps, close to front line, and away from artillery danger spots to be selected and on Z night, all bridges, mats and heavy material will be dump t ed, and on Z night, before arrival of the raiders, brought close to the Sallyports.  Our own Borrow Ditch bridges, and gaps in wire finished, 60 minutes before Zero. 
   
 Two gaps in British wire to be cut opposite Sally Ports, and three to four feet wide running diagonally from our own parapet before Z night, but the outer apron left as a screen from enemy observation, until Z night, when gaps will be finished 60 minutes before Zero.  Any flare or rocket signals, should not be fired from near Sally Trench except in an emergency. 
   
 Motor lorries may be required for conveyance of patrols to Trenches, dumping of bridges, mats etc., and, the conveyance of the raiders from Billets to Trenches.  36 Hours notice is required to order lorries, and on a day previous to Z, the N.C.O. in charge of train should, with an officer, reconnoitre the road to the trenches. 
   
  On Z-Day.   Inspect, check, and reconsider all arrangements, equipment, the dumps, gap in enemy's wire, transport, and arrange for phones from H.Q. to O.C.Raid's Dugout, to be tested.  At this stage, First Field-Dressings must again be checked, and deficiencies made up.  The raiders, before leaving billets must securely pack all kits, blankets, paper in a compact manner (sandbags are useful for this purpose) 
