Monday Dec 6th Wrote home, I got up to-day for the first time surprised at my own weakness as I could hardly walk. I am now on tonics. Two boats have lately been torpedoed in the Med. Greece has not yet decided and as the Serbs are still retreating the situation is very grave.
Tuesday Dec 7th Managed to walk up down the verandah a few times this morning but am terribly weak. Germany is trying in ridiculous terms to negotiate the peace, she must be on her last legs. There are no less than 75 hospitals in Malta. They dont know where to send the Australians as England is too cold Sicily is still in abeyance.
Wednesday Dec 8th More Englishmen in this ward marked for England to-day but no Australians. Being a beautifully clear day we had the rare opportunity of seeing Mt Etna in Sicily. At night time there was a concert by a civilian party in the concert hall, I struggled across with the aid of a stick, but returned shortly as my leg would not stand the strain.
Thursday Dec 9th Managed to get over to the recreation room, it is a fine place and as well as a good library has a nice coffee bar and a dry canteen. This is an immense place and has over 1000 patients in at present. It is rumoured that Greece has joined the Allies.
Friday Dec 10th Three men went to Eng from this ward, they are clearing Malta right out. a Tommy can get home with a toothache. There are only Australians left here now.
Saturday Dec 11th Walked down to see a football match (soccer) between St Georges St Davids resulted in a draw. They play on the hard stony ground. Greece Rumania have both promised support to the Allies.
Sunday Dec 12th Leg became very sore last night after I had been to pictures so I had a good rest to-day. A big bundle of Aust papers came to hand to-day and were very welcome to the ward we only just learned what one the Caulfield Cup run two months ago.
Monday Dec 13th There has been a big reverse in Salonika to the Allies and it is expected that 3000 wounded will shortly arrive. Up all day feeling better but