
sighted Jeffries behind him they counted him out and again made for the door - as before quite orderly.
Martin then ordered us No. 2 back to their lines and with that for the evening the crowds closed.
The sisters" grievance against the man was that he had insulted them and ordered them back to camp from the hill:  it seems that he found several of them there entertaining a number of the patients to afternoon tea.  The place was out of bounds to patients but not to any member of No. 2 and he ordered them all back and [indecipherable] the guard to 21 days for allowing patients to pass.  In this there was a lot for and a lot against but his way of dealing was most tasteless and they took it as offensive.
This morning the sisters [indecipherable] and others paraded too the outcome not known yet.
51Yesterday while we were away - duty (?) most of the chaps were re-vaccinated:  since the big camp of contact has opened next to us this has been considered necessary - although we were only done about a year ago.  I was done this morning.
52These riots etc. are seemingly quite common though it is very rarely that they assume the proportions of late night affairs.  Milford at breakfast to a selected audience gave an account of Ed Pleasant"s little trouble coming out from Aust.  The Colombo affair there must have been something similar in its staging to last night.  I"d give sixpence to be at Anzac detail today and see what happens.
53Chadwick says - "Heaven for polite society and Hell for good fellowship".
54  May 22, 1916An official motto should be assumed by No. 2 A.G.H. - "The bigger the loafer, the better the job".
55Looking through "Apollo" today, I came across this,
'The establishment of the Papal Court at Avignon in 1309 had created a centre of Italian art in the city, round which a local school grew up: .... Froment of Avignon, the painter of "The Burning Bush" in the Cathedral of Aix worked at the court of Rene of Anjou (1417-1450) who established himself in Provence after losing Naples and Sicily."
That Froment"s Triptych should have been considered worthy of inclusion in Remark"s Apollo after its effect upon myself, with my own knowledge of the old Masters is certainly promising.  The Rene of Anjou referred to, I should say judging from a painting in the Musee Longchamps here is the personage portrayed in the left wing of the Triptych of which the "Burning Bush" is the centre.  The features are slightly similar to those of Antonello Da Messina"s "Portrait of a Man", page 17, Apollo.
56  May 23On "sisters fatigue" O"Flarity and "Ike" Johnston walked almost arm in arm "up the aisle",  "Fall in Bridesmaids" says Joe and we did - to our sorrow!
57Peter at Mess tonight superbly damned Royston.  "Who?" said Peter, "Your friend" says Bill Speers, "Oh!  he wery nice fellow", damn Peter.
58Conversation on prostitutes, venereal disease and camp "favourites" being exhausted Mess tonight turned on Germany, Verdun and the end next centuary.  They"ll go on fighting till there"s only three men and a dog left", I said.  "Dere will be no dog" says Peter, "They eat them already:  I tink!"