 [Page 94] 
 222 Tonight received from Commonwealth Bank &pound;2 from the Pater &ndash; gloves for winter guaranteed anyhow, the rest"ll melt I suppose.  "Maleish". 
 223 Tonight discovered another Brooke lover &ndash; S. Val &ndash; uh.  She"s dead nuts on him and pretty well knows him by heart.  Her others well read are Browning, Keats and Rozetti [Rossetti ?].  Must let her have Murdoch"s "Songs of the Open Air". 
 224  Oct. 4 Jake, modelled as clay, cast in Bronze, a hat tattered short and improvised sandals.  Post uncertain, but any he"d carry well.  Is it an ambition too great, or may it be fulfilled?  It stands with the idea of theatrical design &ndash; but takes a front place. 
 225 A nice design for a room:  walls of Ivory, drapes of plum heavy silks, Frieze of 1&frac12; gold designed band, woodwork black.  Etchings, a colour print or two and a Botticelli Birth of Venus in Gold &ndash; brass candlesticks, etc.  V.210. 
 226  Oct. 6 Yesterday afternoon &ndash; couldn"t sleep, so got up shortly after 2 p.m. parade.  Bathed, had lunch at Wimereax and made up for the Military Cemetary on the hills:  it"s a serenely quiet lonely and lovely wind and sun spot, with none of the coldness of the usual Burial place. 
 "After life fitful fine they sleep well" but Brooke is infinitely greater. 
 "If I should die, think only this of me That there"s a spot of foreign soil that is forever England." 
 Blow Bugle Blow are your rich dead. 
 Those buried there lived compleat lives and, sordid though their lives may have been, at least for a while lived to die greatly. 
 At a distance apart are about 20 Graves of German dead &ndash; one name amongst the whole &ndash; a German Capt. whose epitaph is R.I.P. 
 227 "The Prayer" &ndash; Edgar Wallace 
 Oh God of Battles!  Lord of Might, A sentry in the silent night, I 'oo 'ave never prayed, Kneel on the dew damp sand to say O, see me through the comin" day &ndash; But please remember, though I pray, Tat I am not afraid! 
 Oh God of Battles!  Lord of Might! "Ere in the dusky starry light, My inner self I"ve weighed: An" I 'ave seen my guilt an" sin; I"m black as black can be within, But though I would forgiveness win, It ain"t 'cos I"m afraid. 
 Oh God of Battles!  Lord of Might, Keep me tomorrow in your sight &ndash; For I 'ave erred an" strayed, I"ve flouted you with gibe an" sneer At 'ome with chums to laugh an Cheer, But now I am alone &ndash; out 'ere! But still I ain"t afraid! 
 O God of Battles!  Lord of Might! The en"mys camp fires twinkle bright. Tomorrow Lord, your aid: The Canteen was my Sunday School, The drill book was my Golden rule: Wot are they now?  O, 'elpless fool! But still, I"m not afraid! 
 Oh God of Battles!  Lord of Might! The price of every thoughtless slight Tomorrow will be paid! A voice is whispering in my heart &ndash; "Tomorrow soul and soldier part!" But I &ndash; I"m not afraid! 
 Oh God of Battles!  Lord of Might! 'ere in the silence of the night, My 'umble prayer is prayed! All life an" death is one to you, If I must die &ndash; O 'elp me to! In that last moment see me through My God, I am afraid. 