 [Page 88] 
 196 L.H. Signallers, Anzac 1915 There"s a song for the Engineers &ndash; (Signallers mark you are engineers). For running a wire to the firing line Digging a sap, or exploding a mine Any old job, wet weather or fine, Send for the Engineers. 
 Always on hand for the hardest work, Engineers never were known to shirk: Making a road through mud or mire Building a bridge under withering fire. With a blazing log for a funeral pyre, And a farewell laugh at the Turk. 
 Sending a wireless out to the fleet, Flashing the morse so pretty and neat. It"s all in the game the signallers play, For honour and glory and 6/- a day. And now and then some of them get in the way Of shrapnel &ndash; the task to complete. 
 Spare then a thought for the Engineers, (Signallers mark you are engineers), Stuck in the trench with a phone at their ears, When the hours seem days, and the nights seem years, When cheering L. Horsemen, spare some of your cheers, For our Signalling Engineers. 
 197 Saturday night, after the beginning of the big move on the Somme, we had over 500 chaps in and 90&percnt; out again the next morning for Blighty. 
 198 Talking to a couple of our chaps from the Somme tonight up the line, they say this is known as the "Blighty Station". 
 199 Many thanks dear Betty for "Songs  from  of the Open Air".  The wattle has unbound her  golden  yellow hair. Making such golden mist upon the air &hellip;. 
 But could the shaggy wood-god wake, Again to his Arcadian task Of piping, you would see the mask, That I have smiling worn so long Drop at the prelude to his song. And we should speed through glade and make A Dryad you - a Satyr I. 
 200 Lena Ashwell"s party were giving Barrie"s "The Twelve Pound Look" at Rouen before an audience of patients, etc., and came to the part where the wife tells the husband his good points.  "You"re amiable &ndash; cheerful &ndash; chatty" and they cannot tell why the whole crowd let out one solid roar. 
 201  Sep. 20 Newman &ndash; till Jonas"s enthusiasm &ndash; was merely a name &ndash; and a book, "The Mystery of Newman".  (I"d asked of the 'Mystery" &ndash; hence his enthusiasm.) 
 Merriden got me a copy of his "Church of the Fathers":  so far I"ve read a few chaps.  It is the "Church of the Fathers" of my Father &ndash; last in myself.  Though essentially appealing, it scuttles me in its minor points as practised by a certain class.  Must get another copy and have it rebound in scarlet leather.  Mar. 8, 17. 
 202 Talking to Maj. [indecipherable] a few days back on getting a transfer to one of our clearing stations, or to a line detail:  he said that as regards the sort of work we"d been doing the last months or so it had been far more strenuous and vital than that of any other field unit.  Yet even so I"d much rather be with all our chaps &ndash; Tommies are not like ourselves &ndash; and you"d meet there more of the chaps you know. 
 In today"s casualty list are several names of Sydney chaps I knew &ndash; A.D. Savage, Thompson, Watkins, and Nancarrow. 
 203  Sep. 23 Raids hereabouts the 21 and 22.  That of 22 made the sky to the N. of us very beautiful with hundreds of star shells.  The searchlights all round were arched over us and both nights the alarm guns at Boulogne went off.  Nothing further happened both raids.  Calais seemingly was the spot aimed at. 
 204 Tonight Bartlett informed me Smith &ndash; back from England, had a look of a Turk fellow.  They were Franks:  tonight I read part of them &ndash; and they"re rather good. 