
235  Oct. 11Lawson"s"And I am very sad tonight,Because of many things."
About sums up tonight"s feelings.  J. is a bloody fool, and so consciously so.  Seeing through C. as he does and knowing him from previous experiences, he"s a fool to play with such dirty fire.  Clear gambling - the only thing he"s capable of I don"t mind, but when he"ll gamble with such an utter ...  Anyhow I managed to stop it tonight with he holding somewhere about 5.7.6 so that"s one satisfaction.
236How far will M. go? but the exaggeratedly maternal (?) ground we"re on is in itself a barrier.  Thank the Lord G-s gone:  she reminds me of one of de Maupassant"s yarns - a girl in a barge of 7 or 8 men:  her case is similar:  half a day dangling, each of us in a turn - and then the sickly sentiment clouded over a most unsentimental happening.  That"s where she differs from de Maupassant"s heroine:  she"d have shrugged her shoulders, laughed, "La via" and forgotten in new loves.
237Bowled King into the tent this morning in a hellish mood:  snarled silence till he gets into bed, then:-  "What"s the lowest type of civilised humanity known?"  I dropped to the cause:  Jake didn"t, and gave out - "The Aborigine!"  King - ex [indecipherable] - "No! the C.C. bloody Tommy!" - 'here"s an example - I gave a chap a cup of tea, told him what it was, and he asked me what he"d do with it."  I told 'im to bath in it."
238Symons Tragedies.  'The Death of Agrippina".  The inevitable subject - Nero"s murder of his Mother, continually through the whole of its one act, closely follows Macbeth - the schrieking hellish night of Macbeth"s murder of Duncan and this becomes in its way, the Feast of Athena - Agrippina.
AhNow I hear voices and a song:"Goddess of Mercy", that is not her office,What are they singing.
AcmoniaIt is of Orestes,Because Athena freed him from his guilt at Athens, when the furies followed him.
AgrippinaThey followed him because he killed his mother.  Then could Athena free him from his guilt, who could not free remembrances?  A wild song ....
NeroI will not let you go.The moment the atmosphere became changed with the song of Orestes, Nero hesitates ... and is kept to his object by Poppaea.  Right to the murder Macbeth has mainly been well used.  The play finishes well and is a fine little piece of tragic portrayal.
239Wrote tonight to Betty forwarding Jake"s sister"s challenge for an 'Apres la Guerre" swimming championship - at Moonta or Bondi, S. Aus. or N. South.
240Sent home copies of "The Anzac Book" (tonight in Boulogne for 3.50 now selling in London for 1.1.0).  "Belgian Art in Exile", "The Eve Book" and "The Hun Hunted".
The Anzac Book"s coming out again this year, a revised edition, bound in cloth.  50 copies have been allowed this unit - was one of first to put in, hope I get it, price 5/-.  Later copies are to be issued to the public, but not till all ours are out and fixed up.
241To finish the page,In "Death of Agrippina",Why does the King stand looking after her as if he did not see her, and as if he could see nothing else?