
70  June 13Before I wrote this, in bed tonight after full days work in ward, read through "John Millington Synge" by Francis Bickley - Modern Biographies series of Constable.  Seemingly from eulogy of Synge"s interpretation of Irish language and the short extracts from his plays Temple Thurston in his Passionate Crime has slavishly borrowed from him or has closely followed his lead.
Later I must get hold of books by some of the following - especially the first Mangan, Savage, Aubrey de Vere, Katherine Tynan, Lionel Johnson.
On the 9th - when I wrote to England for Studies in Architecture - which as events are turning out I"ll have to send home, I wrote another letter ordering "The Poetical Works of Lionel Johnson" now first collected, etc. etc.  Luckily I cancelled it.
There"s one though if tomorrow"s visit to Cox"s turns out trumps I"ll order at once, and that"s "A Little book of Irish Verse" edited by Albert C. White, 1/- - the price - considering the name is very satisfactory.
71  June 15Cox"s had received back from Cairo the three Money Orders I"d changed with them:  I had to write a guarantee to Cairo P.O. that Cox"s had already payed to me the monies.  Hope I"ve heard last of it, but on back of both the last returned is the significant not paid to Paymaster A.I.F.  Anyhow I"ve had the money and that"s all that interests me.
72  Yesterday in Marseille bought Ian Hay"s "The First Hundred Thousand" and ordered off Blanchard the second volume of Bairnsfather"s "More Fragments from France" and in the Temple Series, Hamlet, Antony and Cleopatra, Romeo and Juliet and Julius Caezar.
731.Dark Rosaleen - Mangan
Oh my Dark RosaleenDo not sigh, do not weep!The Priests are on the Ocean green.They march along the deep.There"s wine from the royal Pope,Upon the ocean green:And Spanish ale shall give you hope,My Dark Rosaleen!My own Rosaleen!Shall glad your heart, shall give you hope,Shall give you health, and help and hope,My Dark Rosaleen!
3.All day long in unrest,To and fro, do I move.The very soul within my breastIs wasted for you, love!The heart in my bosom faintsTo think of you my queenMy life of life, my saint of saints,My dark Rosaleen!My own RosaleenTo hear your sweet and sad complaints,My life, my love, my saint of saints,My Dark Rosaleen.
4.Woe and pain, pain and woe,Are my lot night and noon,To see your bright face clouded soLike to the mournful moon.But yet will I rear your throne,Again in golden sheen;Tis you shall reign, shall reign alone,My Dark RosaleenMy own Rosaleen.Tis you shall have the golden throne,Tis you shall reign, and reign alone,My Dark Rosaleen.
5.Over dews, over sands,Will I fly for your weal:Your holy delicate white handsShall girdle me with steel.At home in your emerald bowers,From mornings dawn till e"ev