
275Birdwood"s manifesto to the A.I.F. re Conscription appeared on the board the day after yesterday - after the voting.  It was far finer than Hughes prosaic appeal, and far more genuine - just the thing to appeal to our fellows - in distinct opposition to Hughes.
276Library"s lowest its ever been - include two of V"s books, "Child Harold" and Rosetti, other Symon "Tragedies" and "Spiritual Adventures" (both read), "Lavengro" and Herodotus - last but not least - its been read in view of transfer - R.A.M.C. manual - opened first time since using it to sketch details of Mosque just before leaving Cairo.
277  Oct. 26Card from Jake tonight - staying with Pearson at Surrey.  Forwarded letter on to him.
278Swinburne"s Ballads and Poems, first series, should be bound in Blood colored vellum, gilt lettered initial letter gold - and small Medusa [?] head on cover.  Beautiful yet soullessly sinister Ballads.  Read tonight 'Dolores", The Pagan through and through - [indecipherable] any of Browning"s Renaissance Paganism.
279With Swinburne"s Ballads tonight Frank Brett"s [Francis Brett Young] "The Iron Age" - in Blackwood"s "Adventures All" series.  It is a beautifully produced little piece, formal, paper cover of dark blue and printed label back and front and paper all that"s desirable.  Infinitely better production than Constable"s similar series - and the same price and as better again as MacDonald"s "Little Books of Georgian Verse".  The Little books of Georgian verse lose in their cover, and in their spacing of page headings.  Infinitely better than all novelty and originality in clear plain type and spacing - no attempted originality beyond that of good taste.
280V. referred to Swinburne few days ago as very ultra, very cultured.  She brought up a sandwich cake for us last night.
281  Oct. 27Reading finishing Symons Spiritual Adventures "The Death of Peter Wyndham".  This is a fine little study of the temperament fascinated by the crudely sensual - yet a temperament purely creative.  It is a somewhat novel explanation of the point of view of those modern men - mostly of the continent whose work runs to these scrolling studies - nudes hot flush colored - sharp uncanny shadows of green, purples and blues.  'Color" Magazine has placed a deal of these pictures before the English public - has indeed to a large extent taken the place of "Jugend".
In black and white work Lindsay to a certain extent follows Peter Wyndham - yet his work - his nude Venuses and Pagan Goddesses are of the purely voluptuous type.
282Still the Bulletin is publishing The Australian Decalogue.  In Aug. 17, I am Thy Native Land, Thou shalt have none other gods before me.  People in two or three generations will not understand the spirit in which these most egotistical 'Decalogues" were composed, but such as the ones above are with no [indecipherable] spontaneous - are our absolute ideals put into words.  Perhaps we are a bombastic race, but we have a lot to be proud of - our country in particular and our men - our women - and our cities.
When we were better known in Egypt we were in caps - there was no fear of losing our personalities in being taken for Tommies - here its hats all the while.  Our hats as much as our badge of race as our Rising Sun.
283No word yet through of transfer - Charles says the old man turned the last lot down and the A.R.M.S. won"t allow any more to exchange.  If the 1st failed will fall back on Jake"s fixing for the 12th.