 [Page 96] 
 228  Oct. 7 Tonight"s mail brought to light &ndash; travelling since Sep. 19 &ndash; Symon"s "Spiritual Adventures" from Times Book Club sale. 
 The book &ndash; subtitled "Studies in Temperament" seems something in the manner of Pater"s Imaginary Portrait, in the manner only, not the style.  "A Prelude to Life", half read, suggests the soul will be MacKenzie"s "Sinister St.", and in a lesser degree Sadler"s "Hyssop". 
 229 Tonight Keith and Carmody left &ndash; transfers to the 4th F. Amb.  At the beginning of the week Mick for the 1st, and early last month, or the month before, George and Max for the 13th:  Max caught his first day in the area, a bullet through his head, and died 2 minutes later.  Jake put in for the 44 Batt. and I"ve put in for the 1 M.F.A., and now won"t be sorry if it hangs fire till after the winter. 
 230 King, Jake and self at tea in the village tonight argued 'Predestination", J. and self beat K. but the beggar won"t admit it. 
 231 Henry Lawson bursts forth again in the Bulletin of Aug. 10 with 'In Flanders".  It"s a topping little piece and just in the proper manner for the 'Dinkum" literary tastes. 
 The only fault with Lawson is that we don"t get enough of him out here. 
 232  Oct. 9 On the spur of the moment decided on seeing Jimmy &ndash; to put in with him for the 1st F.A.  More chance with 2 applying in same transfer than one, and with the winter coming on, its more likely they"ll be ready for a change.  Its certainly not a good time to exchange, but its more than up to us after a year"s base &ndash; or nearly base &ndash; work. 
 233 Tonight"s mail &ndash; reg. letter from Mother.  We often read letters aloud to each other and says Jake &ndash; "Its no wonder Frank the Australians have such guts &ndash; with their women at home!" 
 Sister Weigall"s one of those 'bosker" women &ndash; a woman in its most lovely sense. 
 234 Finished reading Symons "Prelude to Life":  well, its not bad reading, but what a waste in parts:  with those qualities and temperament, the portrait is not true &ndash; the ten [?] contradictions are too unreal. 
 The idea &ndash; 'The Prelude to Life" idea is good:  what would the Life itself bring forth &ndash; such a prelude that ended &ndash; "Then I enlisted &ndash; " 
 To two chaps I"ve met since 1915 I owe more than I know &ndash; infinitely more than they could possibly dream of - even if they had the chance:  Jimmy Thurston a Melb. chap in the 1st L.H.F.A., and to Jake, 'The Prelude to Life" &ndash; as a prelude through to death;  well if the death were in the field I would be content:  nowhere wonderful has the prelude been but nowhere wholly sad.  Two years ago, had the Life then commenced, well it would not have been ever middling good:  Egypt and France, Transport and Camp experience have brought to a normal point an almost exaggerated aesthetic and spiritual sense, even perhaps the ending of Pater"s 'Denys l"Auxerrois" may have been mine &ndash; may now even if I remain here, and the transfer does not eventuate.  Such an obsession &ndash; an obsession that kills &ndash; as Denys, has been mine &ndash; an obsession that became less an obsession after enlistment and the Transport. 
 To Harry I owed much before 1915, and to Butchart in 1911.  To Harry I owed the slight merging of the aesthetic and the spiritual, and to Butch, what I owe to a far great extent to Jake.  J. and B. similar types, as different to self as Chinese and Italian design. 