 [Page 22] 
 24. Bill and Smithy wanted to go out to-night but had to tour the camp with a magnet to get the necessary 'jelcosse".  Peach wasn"t having any:  says he, "I"ll have to get the Bailiffs in, Bill, I can see that".  "You can"t" says Bill, "we only owe you 16/- - and you could get in on for less 'en a pound."  "Then lend us 4 more [indecipherable] says Smithy "and bring 'em in". 
 Bill"s troubles are either of a 'coppery" nature or an amorous nature.  When the mail came in he got about 10 letters from different girls.  "Ethel" hadn"t written and Bill"s going to "Bloody well shun her", then meditatively, "I can"t write to Milly nicely because she"ll tell Ethel and that"d be "bloody awful".  Poor Bill doesn"t know what to do.  "It"ll be bloody awful when I get back to Sydney, won"t it Frank", says he.  I"ve promised to get him a copy of Jacob"s "Master of Craft" but his case is even worse than the master of craft.  Poor Bill and Smithy"s frightened his wife"ll get hold of some of his letters to other girls.  Altogether Mac"s night was almost as funny as Smith"s night of "giddiness". 
 25.  May 5 Jonas evidently had a bit of the dew in him tonight:  while we were at mess he came over and started a series of nuisance criticism of those absent and present.  "Where"s Watkins lately!"  I think he must be contemplating an assassination!" etc. etc. and that sort of thing. 
 He left us and visited the cookhouse.  "You know Coli, an Australian"s equal to 5 Englishmen" started it.  Poor Coli!  A crowd collected and while Jonas unlovely damned all Tommies and lauded us, Coli straffed him and his contention. 
 Jonas"s prompt contention was this:  "In all English papers the English soldier is "Tommy Atkins" &ndash; he"s pictured as dropping his aitches and generally making himself cheap.  No Australian paper would continually stress this and (to Jonas) the obvious conclusion is that the Tommy is a cad. 
 Peter"s opinion of Jonas was expressed the other day &ndash; "He"s a good fel-low, but pulls Chrise (Christ"s) leg!"  Talking in the tent to Bill tonight about Coli and Jonas, Bill laughed.  "Hell, I like to hear chaps bite.  You could hear Coli"s teeth snap couldn"t you!"   I never bite myself (too true) an" I think Wal"s (Smithy) taking a tumble to himself. 
 26. May 7. A Library in a tin (labelled "British made" &ndash; altho" a dried vegetable tin). 
 1. "The Sentimental Bloke" &ndash; Dennis received yesterday by post &ndash; now ancient history in the camp. 2.  "Apollo" ordered first week in Marseille and received a few days ago, 9F. 3.  "The Passionate Crime", Temple Thurston in new continental edition, 2F. 4.  The Antagonist, Temple Thurston, and 5.  Richard Furlong, Temple Thurston both purchased from Cain Soldiers Cap just before leaving and read on Braemar Castle. 6.  "Picture of Dorian Gray", Wilde and 7.  Intentions &ndash; borrowed from Jonas and not yet returned. 8.  "All the World Wondered" Les Merrick swapped for "Secret Woman" of Phillpotts. 9.  Keats 10.  Browning 11.  "St. Ives", R.L.S. 12.  "Tartarin of Tarascon", Alphonse Daudet and 13.  "The Master", I. Zangwill used to prop up one corner of bed (?). 
 A few days ago I started to collect from the Bulletin"s "Red Page" all reviews of Russian and continental fiction etc. and the drawings of N. Lindsay and Low. 
 June 19, A Thing of the Past. 