
359Pushing the trucks - loaded with two stretcher cases, along the miniature rail from here to the rail head - especially by night - the prostrated figures - completely covered by the blankets - stiff and still, remind me of two things - the Florentine, and a picture in the Sydney Gallery, The Sons of - Clemis (?).
360  Dec. 29Yesterday a Bath:  for 5 minutes under a thin stream of hot water - 71/2 hours travelling.  Left Longueval at midday to catch train - trucks of wounded - at railhead, trucks all but two or three full of Tommy washing parties, so had to push in with them.  Just this side of Fricourt engine shunted and got away before we"d realised it with the trucks of wounded, walked then to near Fricourt baths and caught motor lorry, left lorry as she turned away towards Fricourt village, and after 10 mins. walk caught another which left us at Meaulte"s railhead.  Baths just near here at .... and run by some of our nursing sisters.  Back, change and tea and dried figs, cake and biscuits from cookhouse and canteen near.  Then down to railhead and caught truck train leaving Meaulte at 3.30 and arrived back at Dressing Station about 7.45 in time to go on duty.  Easy night, two boys, too bad to carry, died during evening.  Fritz shelling during the night and dropped seven or eight shells close round, one in our lines, and one between us and the cookhouse early this morning.  Slept through it all - dead to the world.
361  Dec. 31At the Quarry a few days ago working with a Pioneer Company.  A Tommy officer calls up one of them for not saluting.  "Don"t you men ever salute?""No, we cut that out months ago, digger!"
362Some things I hope to read of and know.  Florentine History and more especially Florentine Art, Renaissance Art and Architecture of Italy and France, Elizabethans of England.
The literature of the last century, and the histories of all literary and artistic movements.
And some books I hope to own.  Most of those published by Len Warner in the Riccardo Press - some in vellum binding.  various lines - in Len Warner edition.  Don Quixote, 3rd edition in [indecipherable], most of Swinburne"s works, 1908 edition of Wilde in 14 vols.  Verses in 26 vols. Barrie works and Max Beerbohm, and a library of reproductions of all important pictures and sculptures.  Half of Bamforth publications, also many of the Country Life Library and Whistler, Smith"s Art of Making Enemies, Rabelais and Lindsay"s edition of Patronius.
Now the New Year ruining old desires,The thoughtful soul to solitude returns.
163 [363 ?]The year"s reading has been good, considering the circumstances, 4 of Hardy"s, 11/2  Meredith, several of Temple Thurston, two of McKenzies and a deal of Poetry.
Next year"s?
164  [364 ?]  1 Jan. 1916A quiet night:  the bombardments expected only just a trifle above the usual when Battalions change over.  Fritz landed about here very few shells and only one or two shrapnell.
At about 10 Cliff brought in two opened parcels - one belonging to Stevens now in N.Z. - the chap I exchanged with, and the other one to a chap dead, buried near Flers.  For the contents amongst the 16 of us we drew no thanks, all prizes, but some duds - a tin of jam and a tin of Beans.  I chose the jam.
This time last year so we"ve been talking this year - but in Sep. should see the end.
But between this and then there"ll be some big offensives, and some terrible losses for us.  Will the Tanks be back again?  It seems probable that they will, but once so improved that the slow one fades into insignificance:  this because of the way the papers have so fully illustrated them.  But Fritz?  What has he got.