 [Page 134] 
 A few nights ago 4 squads of us spent a good couple of hours reading from "The Moods of Ginger Mick" round the brazier at evacuation point &ndash; the "Estaminet".  There were good readings and bad:  Sapper and Syd the best, but we survived the others.  There were laughs and silences and in the back we all knew someone else &ndash; and ourselves.  Ginger Mick himself &ndash; in the section &ndash; and one of its best hearted and wholest men.  This Ginger Mick, the Sentimental Bloke, a gallant gentleman, a hard doer and the best hearted fellow in the world &ndash; from the Loo. 
 One morning in at Flers we saw him making bacon sandwiches for boys waiting to see the Battalion doctor.  Half the time we were there he used shell bits, made for our tea &ndash; then brought up water, "the &hellip; wanted a drink so I 'ad to let 'im [indecipherable] it". 
 6 One of the sisters of the 3rd has given A section another "hit".  "Stretcher bearing" she snorted &ndash; "Brute strength and ignorance is all that"s required".  Brute strength and ignorance.  Bibs is "sunny days will shine" and sometimes a ride &ndash;" but they"re a &hellip;. long while shinin"".  Man is "well lads, things is crook". 
 7  Dec. 6 Two days ago started our chaps back to Buire.  Tomorrow the rest of us go, and then leave to Amiens:  perhaps.  The latest Dinkums of importance are that from the A.D.M.S"s office comes word that the 1st L.H. will be on the water within six weeks and the Kaiser dead. 
 Last night we bombarded Fritz nearby right through &ndash; and he for a while returned the compliment &ndash; nearly getting our light railway.  Carrying out on the heaviest night we"ve had, and some had cases went through. 
 "Things is crook &ndash; sadness is set in."  A cold night, and snow. 
 8 Big mail couple of nights ago &ndash; two from Father and one from Mother. 
 On Oct. 21 Grandma Molony died, I knew her well, yet in memory she"ll live on, saw her most &ndash; in the Morning Room at Burwood &ndash; intimidating stiff linens. 
 9 In last mail &ndash; from Jake, he"s taking Vansom"s admin. and is claiming Jim and Doug, and getting into O.T.C. &ndash; the damn fool. 
 But without both Jim and Doug he"ll have much to say on this. 
 10  Jan. 10 "Well it seems yer" bloody well right &ndash; again always calling chaps ----s." 
 "I"m not!  I only call me cobbers &hellip;s, you &hellip;.!" 
 11 The O.M. only dished us out 4 loaves between the 16 of us:  rations for 24 hours. 
 Please give me a penny sir, My Mother dear is dead. My Father he"s a drunkard, sir, A Penny please for bread! 
 --  a full chorus behind the tent. 
 12 Some days back received from Merridens another small parcel of books:  Shaw"s "John Bull"s other Ireland", Lucas"s "A Little of Everything" and MacGill"s "Soldier Songs" - songs in which he completely fails.  Blackwell"s "Songs from the Trenches", infinitely better. 
 13 Once it was but rarely I"d think for long on ambitions and life "Apres la Guerre":  now when the reality of the many chances of not returning, the longing for the ending and the restarting of home and civil life, daily pictures of that after fill my mind:  and one of the most frequent scenes &ndash; strangely before a fire &ndash; is in my room comfortably arm-chaired and a large book open:  then comes the many cravings in the same room of yarns over old times with many chaps - cravings of quiet and luxury.  When all crudeness and blood is forgotten &ndash; forgotten? &ndash; and the lighter side only remembered. 