 [Page 182] 
 Reading, 1915-1916-1917 
 1915 On Transport A. 17, Port Lincoln 1.  "The Quest of the Golden Girl" by Richard le Galliene, one of those rare books that leaves a flavour of fine romance and a delicate choice of subject. 2.  "The Renaissance", Walter Pater. I sent this home in first parcel from Ghezireh &ndash; I"d read it several times and thought I"d not have opportunities again. 3.  "Belgium"s Agony", Verhaeren, translated by M.T. Sadler.  This best I"ve read on the war.  I lent this to Sedj. and he lost it. 4.  "When I was King", Henry Lawson "And I love the dear land where the waratah grows, and the wattle bough blooms on the Hill". 
 At Ghezireh till end of year little or nothing, with the exception of Keats, Rosetti and the "Red Cross Book".  I forgot, "Guy and Pauline" of Crompton McKenzie [Compton MacKenzie].  This is a tale of Guy"s first love and his living at the Romance house brought into "Sinister St.", Michal figures not at all. 
 1916 No. 4 Aux. Hosp. Abbassiah, Jan. 
 1.  "The Passionate Elopement", Crompton McKenzie. I started this while in camp at Liverpool shortly after reading "Sinister St.".  It made more of an admirer than some of his writing.  It could be easily sub-titled &ndash; "A Romantick Fantasy". 2.  "The Ordeal of Richard Feverel", George Meredith. I"ll read more of his directly I get hold of them. 3.  Finished "Endymion" and read and re-read a lot of Keats. 4.  "Under the Greenwood Tree", Hardy.  Nick brought this out to me but I didn"t have time to read it. 7.  Also while there read "King Solomon"s Mines", "Maiwa"s Revenge" and "The Ghosts Kings" of Rider Haggard. 
 Back at Ghezireh 1.  Fol. N. de Vere Stacpoole, "Goods" 2.  "The Orloff Couple "  Maxim Ghorki [Maksim Gorky]. Started at Ghezireh and finished on Braemar Castle. 3.  "The Sphinx"s Secret", Frank Darby (and while at No. 4 Aux. his "Heart of a Child").  This is in its small way an apology and an explanation of Wilde.  One of leading characters is his wife, here distorted. 4.  "Picture of Dorian Gray" and "Selections from the Prose of Oscar Wilde". 5.  "The Path of Glory", Anatole France, not quite up to expectations but interesting. 6.  "Wine, Women and Song", J.A. Symonds, a collection of translations from early Italian verse of a certain school. 7.  "The Antagonist" and "Richard Furlong", Temple Thurston. 8.  Both taken from the Soldiers Cap in Cairo while at Abbassia.  Read during trip across in Braemar Castle. 9.  "The Picture of Dorian Gray" on Braemar Castle. 
 France, April, Camp Mosset, Marseille 
 1.  "The Return of the Native", Hardy.  The first of his I"ve read through.  This is a jolly fine piece of work, the changing picture of Eagdon [Egdon] Heath being particularly fine piece of prose and description.  The last book though strikes as being unnecessary.  To know that Clem became a travelling parson takes away from the grimness of the tragedy. 2.  "St. Ives", R.L.S.  The first edition:  I pinched from T. Wilson &ndash; had been some days back lauding its praise and then I"d found he"d chucked it behind his bunk as read.  I enjoyed it as much as "The Passionate Elopement".  Keats, Browning at intervals. 
 May 1916 1.  "The Passionate Crime", Temple Thurston.  More than equalled expectations.  To be read again. 2.  "All the World Wondered", L. Merrick.  Hooray for 'Tricotrin" [?] 3.  "Sally Bishop", Temple Thurston, started after getting half through Zola"s tedious "Drunk" [The Drunkard ?] &ndash; which I don"t suppose I"ll finish.  Sally Bishop more than up to expectations and similar in its way to Daudet. 
 June 1916 1.  Keats &ndash; "Otho the Great", "Stephen" of Lamia 2.  "Byeways", Hichens &ndash; about 3 out of 6 short yarns. 3.  "Lighter side of School Life", Ian Hay.  Sister Weigall lent me this and I thoroughly enjoyed it &ndash; appreciation of Weigall herself added to. 4.  First 3 numbers of Poetry Review - including Stephen Phillips "Harold".  Harold very ordinary short poems &ndash; especially "Eilleen" very fine. 
 [Beside June, Nos. 1-4 above.]  In hospital. 