
what would there have been between here and Bapaume ....
109One of the casualties passed by Cliff back at the chateau this morning - a tommy knocked by a bomb:  he"d been after wood and lifting a small beam piece pulled a string tied to it and a Boche bomb.  Directly I heard it I seemed to remember going exploring in a great palace, but in fear of a similar happening - explosive line attached to anything moved.
110   April 16It was the 5, 6, 7 Battery the Boche yesterday captured - and then in our rally we got them back.  Killed about 1200 and of necessity had to capture 600 prisoners.
The Boche"s counterattack was the worst move he"s yet taken:  it"s the first time we"ve been repulsed - and although we immediately got back all we"d lost, the boys swore that they"ll never again take prisoners.
111Brown"s squad here from Cliff"s post in the wood.  Davies" squad up at next post relieving Nick"s squad:  tomorrow Ern"s goes up to R.A.P., today he cooks ...
112This morning fine and windy - went alone for a walk over hills near Hermies.  If only the sun was alive, and the wind dead ... the grass as in summer ...
113   April 17, '17A mail in tonight - one from Sister Weigall, one from Betty from Manly and one from Matt ...  Matt"s long, ready and newsy as usual.
Today is the canal for water - to the A.D.S. for supplies for 2nd Batt. and so to bed.
The Boche - according to 2nd Boys, is massing before us on our R.  Tomorrow we move from here to new position.  Ern"s squad up all today building new dugout, and now tonight 4 more moving trees from road for Arab wagon to carry on.  Yesterday we"re back to Cliff"s past, record time in rain and darkness to get from transport book of Stacpoole"s - Street of the Flute Player.  Read 4 chapters and turned in.  Only one case through - a Capt. sick:  kept him against instr.
114Strange dream last night of Gerald, and my advice to him re planning against the Boche with example tales from Factory Corner plyings, and a packet of photographs he brought from Aussy to me of Rosalind.  R in strange unnatural garmentings.  Also he"d several boxes of chocolate for me that somehow or other I didn"t get.  Must answer his card by more than a "whizz bang".
115Weather today as the weather on this same date last year - cold - damnably cold, rainy and miserable.
116   April 19A clearer day than yesterday:  left old station relay in the valley and moved up to sunken road this side of Hermies.  Good dressing post.  Billy and self on dressing, running, and alternately gas guard ...  Last night, after a dopey day turned in and alone in the dugout exploded a Hymn of Hate on the day, weather and the Boche.
117On Duty tonight first shift - 8 to midnight, last night on last - 4 till 8 a.m.  Six through then, and three during the day.  Finished this morning covering over mud outside, and this afternoon built up end wall of sandbags and on stretcher dugout.  Tonight a mail - which I"ll read when Billy and Lofty have P.O.Q"d.
Then - with the fire good - a comfortable seat and a decent home -  if the Boche fail to knock any of the boys in.
118   10 p.m.Billy and Lofty back for bed - and my letters read.  One from Dad - 4 pages Feb. 6, one from Grandma 4 pages Feb. 10, and two from the Mater, Dec. 20, 1 page and 4 pages Feb. 11.  Now I"m in debt as to letters all round.  Also amongst letters a paper - the Bulletin Feb. 15.
119This is the stint - that back at Becordal after, the last 7 weeks in, I had such a feeling that I"d be better out of it for a while ...