 [Page 132] 
 January 1917 Longueval, A.D.S.  1st 
 1 Good old J.  The best I heard for many a day was what Barton had to say.  If you can get your transfer to here, we"ll be set. 
 2  4 From the Bulli. of Oct. 26 &ndash; the results of a competition &ndash; a description of Billjim.  The best printed on line of the typical Billjim. 
 1  A Gay &ndash; Grey-eyed, graceful, generous gambler. 2  An honest, humorous, honourable, handsome, happy of luck hard-won. 3  A lion, lithe, lank, lazy, live, laughter, laring, large-eyed, long armed, larrikin, long necked, loose limbed, laconic, leg-pulling, lurid, lean. 4  Nice, narrow hipped and nonchalant. 5  A quick willed, red blooded resourceful rebel. 6  A slim, sturdy, sinewy, slouching, sensitive, silent, self-reliant, soft hearted, sports loving, swash buckling, straight yarning, sturdy eyed, small chinned, sandy haired, super masculine, sentimental bloke. 7  &hellip; only more so. 
 3 A young Fritz we took down the other day after his first  bashfulness passed, anxiously asked confirmation of one of their "Dinkums". 
 "Do you send all the prisoners you capture to Australia?" 
 4 Bill"s just come into the tent &ndash; and in still another rig:  Glengarry &ndash; cardigan, mauve underpants and knee gum boots. 
 Headgears Soft easy felts &ndash; well shaped and well dinted and otherwise, hardhatters, shams and caps &ndash; and the first day supplemented by enormous whites worn a hundred ways.  The brim ever wide and soft, and of a lovely surface for decorative indelible words, "Bill Smith &ndash; Enmore &ndash; Australia will be there" impressionistically stitched on the under side and the brim caught up by a rose or a cigarette card &ndash; a patriotic button or a glaring breach.  Then again the cap could be well worn and safely kept in position by simply turning under the sides, so leaving two chin jacks:  or by turning under the whole, and so constructing a neat toque. 
 Then comes the uniform issues and they gave us a cap and hat (Billjims already had both &ndash; from his cobber or he"d pinched 'em) and we wore our caps to a standstill.  On the transports we"d the wind and the sun.  Egypt it was hot but we still stuck to the caps &ndash; but gave the hats more than a fly.  Then the helmet. 
 By the time we"d reached France we"d not all of us both caps and hats, some had and for a while stuck to the cap.  For a while:  a day dammed the cap and the hat came into its forte and compleat glory.  Our uniform became changed by the fitch fastened to the Tommy tunics - but we stuck to the hat.  Tommy has adornable puttees, trousers and tunic but over our hat.  Then to the line, and they gave us steel helmets &ndash; heavy and uncomfortable, with wide straps and deep lining.  Uniforms can be easily summed up:  Top gum boots &ndash; sheepskin, leather side and mufflers, a balaclava and helmet &ndash; or hats.  Generally a waterproof sheet gracefully drooped from the shoulders &ndash; or with a hat in the centre is turned over the front and back, with a string tied round the waist. 
 In a late copy of the Bulli. in a paragraph on the use of a kerosene tin.  What about the virtues of a helmet. 
 A wash basin, and a seat, a pot and a candle holder &ndash; candles would be the tops and a diner and a tucker dump.  A jewel of Bibs, describing a New Year"s day episode &ndash; "I got 'im a tin 'at to spew in, but 'e wouldn"t, an" I put me finger in "is mouth, an" 'e bit it so I said - you: &hellip; an" &hellip; you too 'e sez. 