
33On Sunday last, in the early afternoon, acting as Runner, over from the Yarra Bank and Bayonet Trench, some terrible sights.  If they were brought before the peaceful public, how horrible and terrible would it all become to them.  If they would merely see the chaps now - that once they farewelled, cheered and enthused over something of the horror of it would be theirs.  But the papers and heads still churned out dope about several victories and local successes - including such incidents as the last raid here - before the stunt - when the 4th and 5 hopped over, and the 5th had casualties about 50% of their raiders.
Another striking - and a picture without the rotting bodies and bloody shelters with ten bodies in them - sights on the light rail, when two or three trucks of stretcher cases are being pushed down.  The ten trucks and the stretchers with the men"s blanket covered and the chaps pushing, make a subject with all the relief of a cameo against the dull ground.
34   March 1Today - till midday no casualties through.  Clarrie and self up to F. [Factory] Corner and on to Ligny Thilloy [?] and the Farm.  More craters near Farm, no casualties caused by its explosion - now occupied as villa district by our chaps.  Called at the Relays - saw Bill, Peter and Syd.  Bill in new trousers just arrived from Blighty.  Back to Edwards Post and turned in after lunch.  Near Seven Elms the Col. and his runner knocked this morning - he through the lungs and [indecipherable] in the thigh - making 4th casualty this time in - Flowers the first and he knocked in the shoulder just behind us at Turks Trench the first day coming in.  Stretchers in till midnight 6 Batts. in all - Bomb wounds.  The night quiet.
35The North Road - the valley and once old residential site - now going in for closer settlement.  Dugouts of all schools - terraces and some detached all along from No. 1 Relay (Rd.) to the Dump Corner.  Just behind the old post - now in possession of 4 Artillery Officers a couple of 18 pounder test lines - the same over the Factory Corner Dugout and even along the road to the Farm.  Bodies all along the old road - Fritz and Tommy and .... what we heard on Sunday is true.
Billy down last night late and a cheerful tale of our unexplored dugout - they got down the steps and stopped - on the wall opposite entrance a black disc, with it, and chalked up "Take Care".  Is it that Fritz has some sense of humour, or is it some of our Engineers or Artillery"s mode of ensuring possession.
All the dead, N. Zealanders, Tommies and our boys from last Oct."s charges near Bayonet Trench - Fritz"s old front line, to be buried.  Prisoners started this yesterday.
Last night a mail in - and for me one typed high pitched page from Lindsay.
36  March 2
From midnight till 8 a.m. we came through.  Heavy bombardments over Seven Elms way and on our right.  Furphy about 2nd Dvn. hop over.  First batch through this morning early, started by young Fritz - a boy of less than 18 - on shoulder and hip.  First field dressing over right hip, covered hole near hip joint about 2" x 1" and a great gush of blood from it.  Padded it with gauze - a whole roll used and bandaged.  Poor beggar was game but must have been in great pain.  In amongst about ten following stretchers - one of our own boys - with his right foot shot away.  Most of Fritz cases pretty bad - one officer knocked in leg kept me wide eyed:  amongst the walkers, a little Corporal of the guards with a hunk of muscle out of his shoulder and the arm smashed a trifle - he"d bled badly, but his worry at the idea he had that he"d lost his arm seemed to pain him most.  Dressed him, and relieved him of the weight of his two field dressings - so glad at my taping him for them.  They"re poor, mostly bandage and gauze, wrapped in rough linen tied with string and dated 1914.  No waterproof or covering air tight round them.  One poor beggar shot in testicle half blown away:  one stretcher that passed him, a Fritz shot through the head was his brother.  The officer and Corporal both Iron Cross beggars from the Russian Front.  "The Russians are" says the latter "not so hard to fight as the