
shortly.
The Egyptians of old brought to their feasts the mummy of one dead - as a terrible reminder, and as an incentive too.
Make the most of what ye yet may spend,Before ye too into the dust descend.
Last night once invisible but tangible were Hyssop, Poppea and a future.
64   March 19On the night of 17th from Fricourt - "The Everlasting Mercy" of Masefield:  read it in Mess Tent Sunday morning.  Finished on 17 "Quinneys" - the second reading, and started Barrie"s "Little Minister".  Tonight a letter from Times Book Club - "Romance of Jean Chapel" on its way.  "Prose Journal" binding:  !!  Tonight - after going through gas at Gas School - at the Anzac Coves in Albert:  H. Williams left the show - and tonight returns.  Last night in at Church service in hall - but a barren sermon - goodly singing.  Apse the band - and overture of "Lohengrin".
65   March 20Borrowed "The Bookman 1916" Christmas number.  Amongst best received and noted -"Mr. Porter" by Herbert Ward, Sketches etc. 7/6, de luxe 21/-"The Girl and the Farm", Phillpotts, illus. by Branguin in color & B & W, 6/-, de luxe 42/-"Human Tragedy", Anatole France, illus. 10/6"The Antique Greek Dance", Maurice Emmanuel, 15/-Tales from Hans C. Anderson, illus. by Harry Clarke, 20/-, 30/-, 3.3.0
66Wrote to Times Book Club for information on available books of Max Beerbohm, and to order Phillpotts "Girl and the Farm", 6/- edition - and to order when ready copy of Brooke"s "Poems".  Also to Merridens for "Men of Letters" by Dixon Scott and Wilde"s "Ballade of Reading Gaol".  The day cold - the trees like pencil drawings in grey [indecipherable].
67The war"s progress?  'Tres bon".  8 p.m. - we"re all waiting for Tommy whose gone to Albert for the paper.
68Aveling Wood, N.E. Corner, March 22"The Chateau""Holy Wars, you have struck it!And where"s the next and the other dump?"Crucifix Corner, down the road, andLancashire Dump up there somewhere!"
The two detailed first hopped out for the Chateau:  then we turned, and down to Crucifix Corner.  About half a mile further down we found it, one of those tall wrought iron crosses standing amongst tall trees formally arranged that, when the trees are green with the grass, are as beautiful in their emotional effect as any cathedral.  This "Crucifix Corner" was not of these - the trees were there yes:  but they were dead shattered trunks standing deep in mud.
Two men we left there.
Billy and myself then for "Lancashire Dump".
We found it seemingly miles away - almost at the end of a long straight road - "Lancashire Dump" printed on a board - "No bon, compris?" pencilled underneath.  It was a dump of picks, shovels, duckboards and trench frames:  and the chap in charge, a R.E. man, knew nothing of our coming ....  We spotted some long shacks, at the corner of the wood - and there, an old Tommy C.C.S. we decided on.  Altogether we found there three guards - chaps of different Tommy Ambulances who"d lately arrived to "take over and guard":  we were the fourth claimants to the guardianship.  The best place for living we found unoccupied:  an officers ward - six spring beds already made up, and three screens and a fire ready.
Midday the A.D.M.S. - of one of the Tommy Divisions turned up and - "wondered".  He knew nothing of us