[Page 17]
Am on watch from 9.30 to 11 p.m.  Two patrols of 3 men each are out from "A" and "B" Companys till 11 p.m. examining the barbed wire etc. in "no mans land".  The enemy on right front open fire about 9.30 p.m. and we thinking that perhaps they had sighted our patrols, sood [stood] on the fire step and returned the fire &ndash; aiming at their flashes to keep their heads down and give our men a chance to get back.
3 or 4 bombs go off in Fritz's trench and we are wondering who is throwing them.  After being relieved I lie down on the bottom of the trench and sleep to be awakened an hour later to be prepared for a gas attack as there is a light breeze from the German lines.
The patrols &frac34; of an hour late without any losses.
April 30The usual "stand-to" at daylight then a sleep until 8 a.m., wake to find 3 letters from home dated March 11th.
Fritz is dropping a few "coal boxes" on Bois-Grenier.  There are no fires as everything inflamable has been burned by previous bombardments.
Learn that the patrols returned safely after a bit of excitment.  When about 50 yards in front of our own parapet they blundered into a water hole and had to stay there as Fritz heard them and opened fire with rifle and machine gun.  After an hour the fire died down and they were able to return.  The bombing was done by some of the 18th.
Monday May 1stSentry from 12.30 to 2 a.m.  Quiet night.  Wake at 8 a.m. to find Fritz shelling two of our 'planes &ndash; it would be better to say "firing at them &ndash; directly over head.  The falling shrapnel is hissing all around.  Our planes are more cheeky than the Taubs and at times come almost within range of the enemy.
At 9 a.m. a "Taub" appears about a mile up.  I empty my magazine at it but am asked by my mates if I am trying to work my head to be sent home for insanity.
May, Monday 2ndRelieved by 19th at 3.30 p.m.  (Fritz still busy with artillary).  Move out of the trenches at dark to our billets.  Turn in dead tired after a mile march in full pack.
May 3rdRise at 9 AM and go to Bois Grenier bombing school for a course of bombing.  Rest of No. 4 go into trenches on fatigue.  Ptd. [Pte.] Whatson Killed, Mitchell wounded at Tramway Avenue.