 [Page 18] 
 May 4th Lovely day.  Brigade bomb school &frac12; mile from Erymingham. 
 May 5th Quiet all day.  Return from bomb school at 4 PM.  German artillary opens out on the trench held by the 20th Batt. at 6.30 p.m.  A strong patrol attacks the [indecipherable] with grenades but is held back by the 20th. 
 May 6th Resting all day in the billets after "standing-to" all night in the 3rd line &ndash; Grenadiers fall in at 8 p.m. and march to "B" Coys Billet armed to the teeth with bombs.  Sleep there in our clothes till "stand-to" as we expected Fritz to attack. 
 May 9 Wet day.  We are resting in Billets in Armentiers.  Firing line terribly quiet. 
 May 12, Friday Anniversary of the day we sailed from Aust.  We go into the trenches at 8 P.M. 
 May 16th, Tuesday The first fine day since we have been in the trenches.  German artillary shelling the 18th with high explosives.  Gas alarm at sunset.  We "Stand-to" with helmets ready.  Stayed down for 30 seconds out over the parapet.  Lieut. Pye killed.  Germans open heavy fire at 10 P.M. 
 May 17 Fine day.  Fairly quiet.  Trenches inspected by General Birdwood &amp; General Holmes.  Gas alarm at Sunset. 
 May 19 Fine day very quiet.  Receive a letter from home.  Write 3.  Go to the "College". 
 May 20, Saturday Fritz shelling "Bois Grenier".  Our trench mortors [mortars] busy on the left.  "Stand to" till 10 p.m.  German planes up we are ordered to put out all lights.  Germans put a few shells. 
 May 21, Sunday Rifle and gas.  We give Fritz a few shells.  He retaliates by shelling "B" Coys trench with schrapnel and high explosives making things very lively.  A machine gun possee was blown to pieces.  We're [indecipherable] 9 to 12 noon.  Explosions in Fritz's trench on the right.  Evidently an accident. 
 May 22, Monday Stand to arms at 1 A.M. as we get word of a big attack on the right.  Stand down at 3 AM and turn in tired out and sleep till dinner time.  Weather like a storm.  Artillary fairly busy.  A Whiz-bang is dropped in front of our parapet.  Prepare to move out but are ordered to stay in another night to our sorrow. 