Suddenly the wind changed and began to blow off shore, wafting the smoke screen seaward and exposing the British ships to the fire of the batteries. A huge searchlight located the Vindictive; shells crashed into her, killing scores of men, shooting away all but four of her boarding gangways.
At one minute past 12, exactly on schedule, the Vindictive was along the seaward side of the mole, in itself some protection. There was a heaving swell; the grapping irons would not hold. The ferryboat Daffodil nosed the Vindictive against the mole and held her there. She rolled and bumped as the storming troops jumped down to the mole from lurching gangways.
Machine-guns mowed down half the first men over. An officer with one arm shot off waved new men on with the other. But the landing troops could not silence the mole batteries; the men who were to bomb the seaplane hangars and docks were shot down before they could reach them; and the Vindictive's upper works, extending above the mole, were riddled by enemy guns.
Meanwhile, the submarine C3, lit up by star shells and under fire, was speeding towards the viaduct. In her bow were five tons of amatol which would blow her to bits if she were hit. The Germans guarding the viaduct with its railway line to the mole believed the submarine was trying to go under the viaduct and into the harbour. In a moment of quiet the English heard their shouts and laughter. The sub. would be caught fast; they would take the Britishers without a struggle.
Her commander, Sandford, drove the submarine hard between the steel supports of the viaduct and fired his time fuses. He and his men hopped into a motor skiff to get away, but its propeller failed.
They had to row for their lives. Fifty yards ? a hundred ? two hundred. In one flaming blast the viaduct roared high in the air, annihilating its defenders and cutting the mole off from the shore. One job was accomplished.
As the viaduct blew up, the blockship Thetis rounded the end of the mole and hurried for the mouth of the canal. On her heels were the Intrepid and the Iphigenia. The Thetis listed heavily as the mole batteries tore into her. She cleared the way through some steel nets, until her propellers fouled on the wires. Mortally wounded, she had taken the brunt of punishment, could go no further, and signalled the other ships to pass her.
The Intrepid led the way into the canal's entrance under heavy fire. She made the canal mouth, rammed her prow into the eastern bank of the channel, then swung her stern around until it grounded on the west bank. Her commander blasted out her bottom, and down she settled in the water. Another objective was was achieved.
The Iphigenia came in close behind, while shore batteries blasted at her point-blank. Her commander saw a gap between the Intrepid's prow and the east bank. He swung the Iphigenia round to close it, churning his motors backward and forward until, after what seemed eternity in the withering fire, he had her where he wanted her. Then he threw the switches. There were dull thuds below the water line. A third objective was accomplished, the job done.
Cutters went alongside both ships as they were settling and rescued the crews.
Many strange things happened in the confusion of battle. When a launch smashed a hole in her bow, a seaman sat in the hole to keep the water out. One group of officers took a life raft and found, to their consternation, that it had an automatic flare which lit on contact with water, making them a perfect target for German machine guns. A cutter accidentally left the Iphigenia's commander on a raft. Seeing a rope trailing behind the departing craft, the commander leaped into the water and grabbed it. He was towed for yards, trying to keep from swallowing the entire North Sea, before he was seen and pulled aboard.
An hour after the first onslaught the British recalled what was left of the landing parties and the fleet limped off under the shelter of a smoke screen. Even the Vindictive got away. As the last of the launches put out to sea, the flagship Warwick ? which, with Admiral Keyes on board, had remained near the Vindictive throughout operations ? slipped in to search for stray survivors. In the thinning smoke, aided by star shells that still rose vainly, she sighted a damaged and overloaded launch. When the Warwick drew near, her Admiral's flag luminous in the flickering light, the men on the launch stood up and cheered their admiral. From that tiny boat, that never should have carried more than 50, the flagship took 100 men. Their cheering was the last sound of a famous victory.
Out of a total of 1500 men, 400 were wounded and 200 dead. Besides the ships purposely sunk, the British lost only one destroyer and two motor boats. Back in port, they heard that the simultaneous raid on Ostend, with the blockships Sirius and Brilliant, had failed.
But their own gallant effort, which one officer had called "sheer madness", was a success. The Zeebrugge canal was corked up. No submarines left it for five months. The German U-boat campaign was once more based on distant Heligoland. The spectacular daring of the attack sapped German confidence, and raised the spirits of the Allies, whose people seized upon it as a sign that the tide had turned. Seven months later the war was won. It had been indeed St. George for Zeebrugge!