This little affair occurred a week or so before I rejoined the battalion.
L?Avenir Liberal
Journal Independent de l?Arrondissement d?Avesnes
Paraissant les Mardis, Jeudis, Samedis.
Children's Fete Day at Beugnies. (France)
Australian Brigadier-General Distributed Toys to French Children.
It is a tradition at Beugnies that at Christmas a distribution of gifts and good things be held. It was formerly the "Ladies Patriotic League" which organised the festival, but war disturbed things. Who was now to take the matter up, seeing that the war was over? Good luck came this year in the shape of the 30th Battalion A.I.F., which was billeted in the village.
M. L?abbe Dubelle, Parish Priest, had hardly expressed his regrets at the disappearance of the old traditions, when Captain Chaplain, Gwynn S.J. hinting at the situation, the matter was at once taken up by the men of 30th Battalion and a resolution to renew the old custom was taken and executed.
Would it be too much to do? At any rate the 30th would do their best. The sum of over 1000 francs was donated voluntarily and the purchase of all that was necessary was made at the Grand Bazaar, Boulevarde Anspach, at Brussells.
Friday, 11th January, in a large room of the fabrique des Produits Ceramiques decorated by the soldiers who were happy to make others happy, was held the distribution of toys, cakes and chocolates. What a day for the children after four years bondage with the huns? There were about 150 of them with their parents and sisters. They regarded with open eyes the array of toys intended for them and forthwith gained an imperishable souvenir of the Australians. The fete was under the patronage of the Brigadier General, whose presence at first lent rather to the children's inquietude, for necessarily they were a trifle timid, but this was quickly dissipated as the General kissed the first of the recipients after presenting them with their toys.
The children rendered God Save the King in English, thus winning the hearts of their Australian auditors. These valiant soldiers joined in the singing of the Marseillaise. After singing several French songs, the children were regaled with refreshments and the distribution of presents was commenced by the General.
The exclamations and cries of joy and surprise can not be expressed. It was necessary to have been an eye witness to fully appreciate the happiness of these youngsters among whom were also the children of the Orphanage of the Sisters of Charity. After the distribution, a moving picture show was taken of the gathering in a field nearby. The children, held high in the arms of soldiers and shewing off their toys were snapped by the photographer. Several were wearing the popular Australian hat and one youngster was seen to have made prisoner of the General's cap.
This day will be an epoch in the annals of the history of Beugnies and the youngsters will always have the livliest recollections of the Australians, as a proof of which we have the fine letter of thanks sent to the Commanding Officer of 30th Battalion by the School-teachers and parents.