
War Diary1915 29th Augustfine work done by one of your Regiments."The 8th are 10 officers 149 others including M.Gs. and details and muster 87 bayonets requiring 15os [officers?] 362 others to complete.  Divn. order to-day contains new allotment of Areas so it looks like a Winter occupation.  Came across Turkish cartridges to-day with bullets taken out and reversed also head of T. 6" shell with a large wooden plug instead of being solid - and made of 1/8" iron sheet:Numbers of dead unburied Turks around here 80 I (2 & 3)  No particulars of 9th and 10th casualties last 2 days but hear they were heavy and serious - at this rate we shall have absolutely no nucleus to build upon: but nobody seems to care - merely fill the gap, get blown out, and done with - The feeling on this point is particularly strong and our Troops are being butchered to try and make good for the recent drafts of men from Engd., notwithstanding they have had continuous bullocking in trenches and are just about worn out:  See daily leakage from sick - The matter has several times been represented without response.5 officers and 121 others of "C" sqn. 11th L.H. reported at 5 p.m. later L. Col. Abbott and Regt. Hd. Qrs. 12th L.H.
30th AugustOn 27th - 28th the 9th L.H. were sent to capture portion of a Turkish trench lost by a British Battn.  This they did (AB) but lost portion being bombed out:  Same night L. Col. Reynell 9th L.H.attacked BC with 75 men.  He got into AB which was partially held by others of his Regt. see (1) then made for BC see (1 and 2).  This was shortly after midnight - He was seen to disappear with some of his men into some T. Trenches.  Some 20 afterwards were traced through Dressing Stns. and 4 unwounded.  The casualties reported are, L. Col. Reynell. Capts. Callary and Jaffray and 68 others - this will probably be corrected later - On 28 - 29th 9th L.H. were again sent at the trench and link up with the 10th L.H. which had about 1 am.  The losses of the latter were, Killed Capt. Fry 2nd Lieut. L.C. Burgess (wounded) C.H. MacBean and G.A. Leake and 3
