 [Page 302] 
 Eskol - Shut.up! Eskol Maras. Enta  Sekin fain = where do you live El Mahal da esmu eh? Akdar arouh Nasleh Etc men henna? Shuft asaker men henna faiteen? Owz Ziada Fe Samak. Andak.Ziada Wallad. Few? Bint. Raho Fen? Beyed men henna lel Koohee; Terra, Beit. Berritt Kateeer  Naard Ruffa diar Stanna Khamsa qiqa Stanna  su  schwai Oozey Frakh Ekla Dory. Batt Biada Bedd Sowari Duke Rhoomey Noose Irsch. Kah a Rech Irsch Wiz. Khamsa Irsh. Wiza Andak khaman? Ibne Relk Andak Ziada askari owz Ziada  Nast  Ismak.eh? Asraker. Elba Kabreet. Toobgea Katta Kherak.! Khardy 
 [Transcriber's notes: 
 Pg. 41. Senussi - refers to a Muslim political-religious order Pg. 47. The Goeben was a  22,000-ton German dreadnought battle cruiser capable of more than 25 knots and armed with ten 28cm guns. She was stationed in the Dardenelles. Pg. 62. Bilhasia or Bilharzia is a human disease caused by parasitic worms Pg. 80. Philips Oppenheim is probably E Phillips Oppenheim. Pg. 113. Lovat's Scouts &ndash;a British Army unit. Pg. 211. Hod is probably a grove of palms Pg. 269. Iodoform Gauze &ndash;100% cotton gauze. 
 Towns mentioned in the Diary Abu-Tig is Abutig about 20kms SSE of Asyut. Assuit is Asyut but also known as Assiut Barrage is not far from the centre of Cairo Beni Salaamis Bani Salem and is about 40kms south of el-Minya or 140 kms south of Cairo on the Nile. Bir-El-Abd is 25-30 miles east of Romani on the el Areesh road Bir-el-Raba is Er Rabah, one or two miles N of Katia/Qatia Bir Salmana is a very small village about 25 miles due east of Romani. Deyrout  is Dairut about 35kms south of Roda, about 2kms west of the Nile. Hill 70 is about 11 miles SW of Romani on the way to Kantara. Hod el Henna is about four miles south of Romani Hod el Sagia is about 25 kms ESE of Romani in the desert Kantara &ndash; is now called Al Qantarah El Sharqiyya  on the Suez Canal about 120 kms north of Suez. Katib Gannet is Katib Gannit about 2 miles SE of Romani. Maadi is about 10kms South of the centre of Cairo Mam Falute is Manfallut about 33 kms SSE of Dairut and about 3kms west of the Nile. Meridith (Meredith) Hill is just south of Romani and Hod el Enna about 2 miles further south Minia Camp Minya is close to el-Menia or el-Minya Nazlet-El-Abid is probably Nazlet el Ibeid about 12 Kms SW of Al Minya. Ogratina or Oghratina is about 12 miles east of Romani. Quatia or Qatia is Katia about 5 miles SE of Romani Roda is about 25kms SSW of Nazlet el Ibeid, on the Niles. Romani is about 40 kms ENE of Kantara Sakkara is Saqqara about 25 kms south of Cairo. Sohag is about 35 kms SSE of Tahta on the Nile. Tahta is about 20 Kms SSE of Tima on the canal and about 3kms west of the Nile. Tel El Kabir  is located 110 kilometres north-north-east of Cairo and 75 kilometres south of Port Said Tima is about 25 kms SE of Abutid and about 4kms west of the Nile on the canal. Tireah is possibly Tira about 100kms due north of Cairo. Tukh-El-Kheil is Tokh Al-Kheil about 7kms WNW of el-Minya. Zeitoun &ndash; there was a training base here, a suburb of Cairo.] 
 [Transcribed by Di Isler and Miles Harvey for the State Library of New South Wales] 
 