the city of vanished glory, strange of history and now lying buried beneath the debris of centuries. Round the site of these old relics the children of Israel marched in solemn procession, and it fell to them without any direct act of war on their part.
Just near this site too the magnificent buildings of Herod once revered themselves, and the place was then a garden of fertility. It is hard, looking at it now, to imagine this was the case, and yet, some of the richest land in the world lies here, and I think the day is coming under British control, when the plains around Jericho will be unrivalled in their productivity. On my right is the Mount of Temptation, sacred for all time because it was here the Saviour of the world struggled and conquered in His first recorded battle as a man, with the concentrated energies and skill of Evil, playing for His downfall. 
Half-way up the Mount is the cave where tradition says the greater part of the battle was fought. A most curious and enormous place is built here, half way up the mountain sight side. It is a Monastry which dates from very early times, and is built sheer on the edge of the precipice, and right along the side of the mountain.
13th Sept. Still in the Valley, though we have moved Camp since I wrote last. The Camp is not an improvement on the last, rather the reverse. We are about a mile and a half from water, and owing to being shut in by white hills, the site is hotter. There is a tremendous amount of discontent amongst the troops in this Squadron. From earl directly after breakfast they are kept going in the tropical sun, and then the watering parade at night is so late, and grooming horses hung out so long afterwards, that it is dark before the men can sit down to their tea, and there are no candles.
In the middle of the day there is a solid half-hour's grooming. We are the only Unit doing this. The Regmts. rub their horses? backs down after midday watering, which no horseman would object to. But the heat is so great that the horses come home from the trip to water in a lather of sweat, and coated with thick dust. Then we turn in, and for half an hour we groom this muddy mixture into their hides, instead