I fancied I could hear him long after the sounds had died away in the distance. They say that war makes one callous, and so it undoubtedly does to a certain extent, but I should never like to think I could grow so callous as to be indifferent to sights and sounds like these.
The night is closing in as I write these lines, without any visible promise of a break in the weather. The sombre skies are hugging the earth in a grey and dreary embrace, the hills quite close at hand totally obscured, by the drifting, leaden colored masses of cloud. Will it never cease? I'm wet through, and in spite of all one's care, even the blankets get damp. Oh for a bit of Australia and the sunshine.
17th March It is still raining. This afternoon the sun made some futile attempts to show us that he was still in his ordinary place, but the few beams allowed to reach us were very weak and watery. Now he has hidden himself once more, and it is raining again. To-day being Sunday, it was announced that there was to be an R.C. Service conducted in the Church of the Nativity. Although not a member of that body, I decided to go as it was probably my only chance of seeing the interior of this building. Ten of us set out, through the slush, and in a heavy downpour, walked the half mile or so that lay between our Camp and the Church, arriving in a dripping state. Our overcoats and hats were deposited in the entrance hall to the Franciscan Convent. The walls of this place are adorned with lithographs depicting Biblical scenes, from the Fall onwards. In many of them symbolical figures represent the vices and virtues. The lifting of a heavy drapery allowed us access into the Chapel of St. Francis Catherine. 
Apart from some fine oil paintings there is nothing of special beauty about the interior of this church. In fact, the seven large glass chandeliers, which are encrusted with dirt, and containing candles reclining in their sockets at different angles, and which have from their appearance been a long time in their places together with the rather inferior work round the altar, serve to give it a somewhat cheap appearance. One especially noticeable object was a very handsome and richly carved pulpit of some dark wood. The