12th Turko's lie in all positions in front of our entanglements this morning. Most of them are 'sleeping the long sleep?. Our Ambulance cars went out and brought many others in, wounded. They were very badly mauled, but it takes a lot to kill the average ?Jacko.? One, with a bullet through his stomach, was walking round at the Dressing Station in quite a casual way. Another had the most thoroughly "filled" eye I have ever seen. He looked as though he had been at the business end of a cyclone, and collected it all in his optic. 180 odd were buried in one grave.
17th We are getting a humid heat wave down in this Valley that takes all the stuffing out of everybody. Scarcely a breeze of any kind stirs the heavy atmosphere, and sand flies and mosquitos by the myriad add to the discomforts. In pursuance of their admirable policy of doing the thick-headed thing in a high-handed way, Military despots have decreed that men shall not wear "shorts" out of camp. Riding breeches must be worn. Our watering place is a few hundred yards from our Camp, yet we are not allowed even to go there without being dressed in these accursed, heavy tight-fitting breeches. If a man wants to wear shorts at all through the day, he has to change into riding pants twice a day to go to water. He does it, to the accompaniment of much profanity and curses on the heads of those responsible. When will that tremendous ass, the Military Machine ever acquire the first rudiments of common-sense and decency, or is it pure "Hunnishness", a desire to harry and annoy the man who has no remedy against such petty tyranny.
18th In orders this morning the following appeared. "The order prohibiting the wearing of shorts when riding out of camp is constantly being disregarded by N.C.O.'s and men. To ensure the observance of this order all shorts now in N.C.O.'s and men's possession will be handed into the Quartermaster today."
That means, of course, that men will be compelled to wear riding breeches all day now. From the Officers? point of view, this is immaterial. He has good comfortable quarters, a batman to bring him water, and wait on him generally, and a nice, light summer uniform fresh from his Cairo tailor, so under these circumstances