1st May The day before yesterday, on the 29th April, we got word we were moving at 11-30 PM on a stunt across the Jordan. At eleven the order was given to harness up and hook in, but it was quite 1-30 on the 30th before we moved. A tremendous amount of transport had already gone on ahead, and for a while there was some difficulty with the pontoon bridges. However we were finally we got over, crossed the Wadi Nimrin, and proceeded along the banks of the Jordan. We were just across the Wadi, when the fighting began on our right. Machine gun and artillery was very active, and hand grenades were being used unsparingly. This was,I believe the 60th Div. attacking. This would be, roughly, somewhere about 3 AM. One could see the burst of flame and the roar hear the roar of our big guns in support, and mark where they struck on the hills. Also, the flash of the Turks artillery in answer could be seen, and high in the sky the spurt of flame from the exploding shrapnel. The morning star yellow and luminous, being just above the horizon, the moon just passed the full, rode serenely in a perfect sky, silvering the plain over which we travelled. Only on earth was their conflict. 
We followed the course of the Jordan for some six or eight miles, but were late getting into our position. All the stars but the morning star had faded, one by one, and the dawn was pink and red in the East before we finally pulled up in a Wadi. We were raising a tremendous dust, and I for one expected a few little attentions from our friend the Turk. We went to the wrong place in the wrong way at first. We have a faculty for doing that and we generally live up to our reputation. An irate Major evidently shared my views for he came up and hastened us into our "possie" declaring we would draw fire if we were not quick.
It was broad daylight when we finally pulled up. I lay down at my horse's head in my overcoat and had just dropped off into sleep when I was called for a cup of tea. The dust had been fearful and everybody looked very queer in the morning light. Everyone had white eyebrows, and eyelashes and hair, and when dark eyes looked out from under the dusty eyebrows it had a peculiar appearance.
We stayed here nearly all day. The Brigade had few casualties. At about 3 o'clock we were on the move again and pulled in alongside the Wadi Nimrin where we now are waiting, I believe, to proceed to Es Salt. Jacko is still holding on to his positions on the Es Salt Road, though I hear the Town fell last night. The Infantry had a very bad time last