16th The bad weather still continues. The wind has not been so boisterous today as yesterday, but it is quite as cold, with more rain. The continuous wet and cold is telling on men and horses alike. The sick parades from the Regiment are larger every day. What this cruel weather must mean to those poor fellows who, after being wounded may have to spend some hours before the Ambulances can pick them up, is beyond conception and yet this does sometimes occur, and through no fault of the Ambulances engaged. As for instance, in the attack on the hills in the west of the Jordan on the 20th Feb. the country was absolutely impassable for vehicled transport of any kind, and most of the carrying of wounded had to be done by parties of stretcher bearers, and these had to carry their burdens a long way, the consequence being that there were some they were their progress was slow, and some were not brought in till the morning.
The other night, while we were in Beitin, after a very cold, wet, and windy day, I was just settling down to sleep when I heard an Ambulance waggon jolting by on the rough road. They stopped opposite our Camp, and I could hear the moans of a wounded man inside. He was evidently an Officer, for in answer to an inquiry of his, the orderly replied, "It's not much further now, Sir". Then evidently the wounded man asked them if they could find a smoother path for I heard the driver say it was impossible to go off the road; and so, indeed, it was. In reply to an inquiry from outside, the driver said this man had been lying out all day.
Enduring intense physical torture from his wounds, he had been lying exposed to the bitter weather for many hours, and the probably without food or water, and then had a rough ride of many miles that must have been Hell to him. He still had more than a mile to do, to Ram-Allah where the clearing station was. The road was made of stones varying from the size of one's fist to the size of one's head. After a few minutes rest, they moved off very slowly, and right away in the distance I could hear him moaning, and imploring them to stop again. This, of course, they could not do. He had to be taken to Hospital and that as quickly as possible.