Sunday 8
 Tonight we were ordered up to the line we went up to the A.I.S. on the Cambrai Road. The country here is fine not much at all marked by shellfire.
Monday 9 
 Early this morning we moved forward again have been bearing all the morning. The infantry this morning took Hermes as usual there are a good number of casualties. The bearing here is not bad but the carries are long, but over good country all cultivation paddocks. Shelling is not too severe. Our base for working is Veln we carry to Beaumetz. Snow, rain, sleet, sunshine wind. About 120 prisoners. Dean Fry was killed this morning on our right.
Tuesday 10
 Still up the line working in front of Hermes. The casualties of yesterday have all come in, in all about 300 from 2nd Batt, too great a percentage. Things are very quiet. We are now on the famous Hindenburg line a few miles ahead are the Cambrain Hills which look very adaptable for defence. In the direction of Arras heavy bombarding is in progress rumour says that Verny ridge has been taken with many guns prisoners. 
 Still bad changeable weather. A German M.G. was brought in today.
Wednesday 11
 Yesterday Harry Bladin Roger Pemberton Lochrary were caught by a shell Harry was badly wounded the others got blighties. We have move back to a dugout in reserve area but another stunt is expected shortly. Another snow storm this afternoon.
Thursday 12
 Nothing doing. Weather still very fickle with rain sleet snow shine.
 Mail.
Friday 13
 This morning we moved to 3rd Battn R.A.P. there built a dugout to make ourselves comfortable. In the evening, without sleeping in our dugout, we had to move up with the R.A.P. to a quarry a few hundred yards behind the outposts. There was a stunt an advance of about 600 yards only two casualties. Beautiful day.
Saturday 14
 Another beautiful day we in the quarry. Absolutely nothing doing. Great news comes from Arras way where apparently the push has commenced in earnest. Guns prisoners galore.
 Murcoing is a town in front of us now.