in the Valley, it was at furnace heat. Snakes abound here now, mostly a small greyish species, with dark wavy bands round the body, and an ugly, dark, flat head. Though only growing to a length of 13 or 15 inches, this snake is extremely dangerous, and as its size and color make it almost invisible in this chalky soil, it is a nasty specimen. 
Big black and red scorpions abound, evil looking things with a most painful bite. Also tremendous spiders with a double set of pincers in the front that work with a rotary motion. He is the avowed enemy of the Scorpion, and a fight between them is a wonderful exhibition of the way nature prepares her creatures for the battle of life.
If the Scorpion gets his deadly sting into the soft body of the Spider, it is a funeral service for the latter. But the first thing he does is to make a lightning dart for the tail of his enemy, and with his powerful nippers severs it from the body. The rest is easy, and in a short time he turns the Scorpion over, and makes a delicate meal out of the soft flesh under the shell of the body. 
It is hard to realise that once in the history of the world this plain was a fertile place indecipherable of Kings delectable in the eyes of Kings, considered by Anthony to have been a worthy gift for that Royal spendthrift, Cleopatra. Now it is the picture of desolation. Gone are the groves of palm and other trees, gone is the irrigation system, and the palatial residences. Jericho itself is a miserable, filthy Arab village, equal in squalor to the worst of Palestine's Arab native towns. Chalk-colored hills, long ago burnt bare of their last vestige of vegetation enclose the vast plain and spring up in the plain itself at irregular intervals. These hills are torn and fissured by the rainfall (lasting about 3 months) of countless centuries, and are weird and fantastic in their shapes. Brown outcroppings of rugged rock occur everywhere. Deep Wadi's crossing and recrossing each other, traverse the whole of the plain. The air is as the breath of a furnace, and dust hangs everywhere in grey choking, blinding clouds. Yesterday it was 25 Farenheit in the tents, and it