in our vicinity, two of the planes put in some very nasty work with their machine guns, swooping down unpleasantly low to do so. There was a rather hasty rush from the blankets to the limber, which having a good load on, afforded pretty good protection from bombs or bullets. I did not hear of any casualties, either among men or animals. At about 2 P.M. we moved camp again, this time to cross the Jordan. All our men are withdrawing from the eastern side of the river. By the time we got to the pontoon there was a tremendous crowd of camel and wheeled transport of every kind already across, and a great crowd waiting to go over. We were not long in starting across. Owing to the recent floods the approaches to the river had become so boggy that the pontoon had to be across the flat as well as the river itself. This made a long trip on the boards, and the mules and the leader I was riding became rather scared.
A frightened horse can, with care and trouble be managed, but a frightened mule is the very Devil himself. We just went down the incline to the river itself, when the pole driver shouted "Whoa", and we stopped. The limber was very close to the edge. We got it straightened up, and started again, and then the fiend that is in every mule asserted himself. A quarter of the way across the stream they commenced backing and prancing, and next moment there was a startled yell from the pole-driver, who was seated on the load, and the limber was over the side. The middle driver and I were off our mounts not a moment too soon.
The poor brute I was riding, scenting danger, and perhaps too feeling security in being with me, turned on the narrow bridge and followed me, but only for a moment, and then the whole team of six were struggling, harnessed, in the water.
As we ran back the pontoon tipped perilously on the side the limber went over, and then broke. With a change of the pronoun, Macaulay's description of the plight of Herminius and Spurius Lartius on the bridge before Rome, suited us exactly. "And as