Jaffa, we were going to Ludd, we were going to Rishon, etc., and we were to have three months spell. It was one of the most fearfully hot days we had experienced in the Valley, and amid clouds of choking, blinding dust we made our way across the plain through Jericho. We were to go up the old road into the hills, but by some means or other did not turn off and proceeded along the new. So we had to turn round and go back and after getting to the base of the hills where the old road wound up the mountain, we found out we were to go the new road after all, so then we had once more to go back. 
One becomes quite used to this mode of procedure after a while, and a move seems strange without more or less futility about it. The other day when we came across the Jordan to the Camp we have just vacated, one of the Units had a camp near us. When their Major had his Camp site pointed out to him he said, "There's our Camp straight across there, boys. We can go straight across, but perhaps we had better adhere to the grand old traditions of the Army. Suppose we go away out here, round that Wadi, and then turn round and come back again." 
Even the Major was driven to Sarcasm! We halted at about 9 P.M. just near the junction of the new and old Jericho roads, perhaps a couple of miles from Talaat ed Dumm, in one of the worst sites for a camp I have seen. Today is like a furnace, and the flies are in clustering, tormenting clouds. One thing redeems the place, we have plenty of good water handy for the horses.
On the 16th we moved again from Talaat ed Dumm. We were out on the road at 7-15 PM and by 8 PM made a start. This is a wearisome drag on the horses coming up to Jerusalem. Ten minute stops were given in every hour, and by 4-30 or 5 AM we were at our destination. This is on the Hebron Road about three or four miles above Solomon's Pools. The hillsides are extremely beautiful just now. Their terraces from the Valley at the foot right up to the top are green with beautiful grape vines. To come from the region of the Dead Sea here is to come to Eden. The barley crops by the Pools are wonderful. We are here for a rest, and most of us feel the need of it.
20th Leave at last, after just on two years A.S. and 13 months of that with the Unit. I got special leave on duty, to Port Said and Cairo. Two of us made the trip. We went by Ambulance car as far as