fever that consumed them.
The interior of the Hospital is awful. Everywhere men were huddled together on the filthy floors, mostly the beds were mattresses thrown down, all foul and insanitary with the signs of previous occupancy. Piles of similar evil-smelling beds were stacked in heaps. Tacked right on to the ward and open to it are the latrines. I do not think disinfectants have ever been used here, and the smell is overpowering, and left me feeling sick for hours.
Yet here unwashed, unkempt, and burning with fever, suffer enduring stoically the pain of wounds, and operations conducted without anaesthetic, suffering the Good God alone knows what, these poor wretches lie, and are carried out to their burial. There were nine sisters in all here, of different races. The doctors were Turkish, though the medical equipment was all German. How these medical men, and nurses live in this place, indifferent, apparently to all the filth, is beyond my comprehension.
Right up to the walls of the hospital, all round, patients have deposited excrement and no attempt was made to dispose of it. I saw some of the patients being fed while there, and the food consisted of dry, unboiled rice. The grain was brought in in trayfuls, and a half-dozen or so men gathered round and eat from it. Others had one tomato, and a small green cucumber.
The sights along the road from Es Salt to Ammon, and around Ammon itself beggar description, but will never fade from my memory, and must instil into everyone who saw the most deep-rooted horror of war, and all it means. Our Camp near the Station was so filthy that we moved away about half a mile the next morning, stayed there that night, and moved on next morning the 27th to our present camp about three or four miles from the township.
3rd October At last the war seems to be drawing somewhere near to a close, with the unconditional surrender of Bulgaria. Things should be made increasingly difficult for Turkey, the question of supplies will be made difficult of solution, and Turkey is left without a valuable ally on the Salonika front. With the complete breaking of her armies in Palestine and the latest successes in Mesopotamia, it should not be long now before she too is ready to give in. When she does, it will leave Austria in a precarious position, and she has enough trouble of her own without that. If Turkey and Austria both go, goodbye to Germany.
Everyone is quite excited over the news, and some who thought to whom Australia was only a place they had only a dim remembrance of, and a dimmer hope of seeing again, now begin to see a glimmer of hope once more. There