to wait. We received a great deal of comfort here from the sight of the Officers Special train, with its comfortable well lighted carriages, carriages and luxurious sleeping berths. We thought of the hard boards of the open truck and the dust, and a glow of thankfulness suffused our hearts because we knew our dear, hard working, self-sacrificing Officers, very much against their wills, were to travel in comfort and luxury, even though there was a cruel war on.
We remembered all the weary hours we had to spend in these same trucks, getting through how and when we could, and missing our midday train to Port Said, and again we rejoiced, because we knew the Officers would get through to time, for their train is like Time himself, it stops or stays for no man, not even if it be wounded men in a Hospital Train. The luxurious train bearing the pampered snobocracy of the British Army goes straight through, despite supplies, and troops, and even sick and wounded themselves.
When we had the Clearing Station at 295, there was a wash away somewhere about the Wadi Ghuzzie, and for five days we could not get a Hospital train, and we had hundreds of sick men and many wounded, but the Officers special train ran every day, but they would not allow any sick or wounded to go on it, so in a Clearing Station, without proper conveniences for treating them, they had to stay, but:- The Officers went through. What an Autocratic display we make of our Democracy!
On the 21st at midnight we arrived in Port Said, putting in next day there, and going on to Cairo on the 23rd, The Delta. It is not my purpose to say anything much about either of these places. So much excellent stuff has been written of them, by those more competent to describe them than I, that it would is is scarcely necessary, to put it mildly, for me to write anything.
Suffice it to say that, as far as Cairo was concerned, I had a stay there of 30 days owing to dental troubles, and saw in that time most of the places visited by the average tourist. Such as the Pyramids, where we did the usual inspection of the interior penetrating to the Kings and Queens Chamber at Ghezireh, in the former of