This village is entirely Christian, and in normal times, has a population of about 5000. These figures, I expect, would be a good deal depleted during the war, especially as the inhabitants are Christian. There is one thing specially noticeable which distinguishes the Mussulman from the Christian village. The Christian place is at least fairly clean, with many decent buildings, while the entirely Mohammaden village of the same character is indescribably filthy and evil smelling. This place on the south western side is honeycombed with stone walls, about 6 ft. in height, built of the rocks and stones cleared from the soil to allow cultivation.
Once we started, we moved at a great pace. In the darkness, floundering among the rocks, and going down-hill without a brake on a heavily loaded limber, at a breakneck pace, was anything but a pleasant sensation but there was a consolation, we were only a short time on the road before reaching Camp. It is wonderful how quickly a camp takes formation. The Brigade was hardly in to night before bivvys sprung up as though by magic, and the opposite hillside to us was lit up by the flare of hundreds of Camp fires, producing a most picturesque effect. I got my bivvy up and had tea. By that time it was 9 o'clock. Then I did an hour's picket on the horse lines, and have just come in, and am writing these few lines before turning in.
The Guns on the right have just opened up, and Jacko is answering. Big things tomorrow I expect.
March 9th From 10 P.M. last night till dawn, the guns kept up a desultory bombardment all through the night with intermittent machine gun fire. All through the night and in the early hours this morning, squads of Infantry were tramping by going up to the firing line, some singing softly, others conversing in low tones, and again other groups marching in silence only broken by the scrunching of their feet on the loose stones and the rattle of their accoutrements. 
Just as dawn was breaking, the guns spoke the big artillery broke out in earnest, and the machine guns kept up a ceaseless staccato. 8 A.M. Word has just come through (not official) that the position has fallen and Johnny is once more on the move. We were to go as far as Beiten last night but for some reason or other, did not do so Beiten lies just ahead of us. We are camped on a rocky hillside, a little to the north east of Ram Allah. We are surely winning the War. This morning when Brigade orders came through there was an enquiry appended: "On one of the G.S. Waggons yesterday, a man was noticed, driving and not wearing his leggings. Did this man belong