gone through it. Patriotism is not helped, but red raggism and deep class hatred gets a mighty leg-up. 
Personally there was nothing I abhorred so much as the class-cry in any shape or form, and all it entailed, but in the Military I do not blame men. They have no redress for injury. It is all very well for Authority to say he has. In theory it is so. In practice it is not. One man makes a complaint, Authority yawns and says, "An isolated case, everyone is perfectly happy". A body of men complain, Authority sits up then every separate hair bristling, "What is this" it cries, "But treason and mutiny. These men have been discussing US which is plainly conduct prejudicial to good order and military discipline. We must make an example." After the war perhaps there may be some enquiry. If there ever is, it will show there will be such washings of filthy linen in public, as will startle that complacent Dame.
Sept. 15th Permission was given to the men to go for a wash at the Wadi to-day, provided they did not take their horses. The Wadi is about a mile and a quarter, or a mile and a half, away, and the temp. at least 115. Enough said!
19th Sept. For days past everyone has been on the tip toe of expectancy. Rumours of big things have been floating round, and made everyone eager. To-night we are all ready. Bivvy's down, horse feed and our own rations on our saddles, and waiting. Many rumours have come in to-day as to success along the coastal sector.
23 Sept. I am writing this among the hills just near Es Salt. We rode up last night, following a deep gorge most of the way. The road is rough in the extreme, winding on narrow paths skirting the edge of the gorge. Dismount for the steep and long winding ascents which mark the path was the order of the night. I was not on the two previous Es Salt stunts, but having seen the road travelled on them, one is amazed at the amazing audacity of the raids, and marvels at their success. If the Turk had been awake the gorges would have been veritable death traps. Now he has gone. Es Salt is clear of him, and all the country surrounding, and there are rumours that he is evacuating Amman as well.
This offensive has been wonderfully successful. There have been some 16,000 or 18,000 prisoners, Nablous is surrounded, with an army of 25,000 or 30,000 holding it, and our troops are up round Haifa and the Sea of Gallilee, and all Turkish communications are pretty well cut, whether the Hedjaz