Mitchell Library, State Library of New South Wales

Clarke war diary, 15 August 1916-14 December 1916 
MLMSS 2758/Item 3

[Page 1] 
[Not transcribed]


[Page 2] 
Opened on 15/8/16

Closed on -

C Diary No 8360

Cris R Clarke
Co Sgt Major

If found Please return to 
Mrs D Clarke
"Avonia"
Hamilton Pd
Fairfield
N S Wales
Australia.


[Page 3]
15.8.16 Tuesday
The night has again been on the quiet side but at the same time there were many desperate little infantry attacks carried out, with a view towards feeling the Enemies strength.

Today is Assumption day in France, Its celebrated by feasts & this reminds me of a supersticious belief of the people round here. The town of Albert which is still being shelled by the Germans, has prior to the war always been regarded as a kind of a Holy City & to this end they erected a magnificent Cathedral, with an immense statue of the Virgin Mary with an infant in her arms on the high spire. All the months that the Germans have been shelling the place the Cathedral seemed to have escaped damage, until the beginning of our offensive, when a few well placed shells reduced it to ruins but marvellous to relate, although the church was smashed the spire remained standing & a big German shell striking the statue, knocked it out of place & it began to fall. By some miraculous coincidence it seemed to catch on the ironwork & is now hanging right out over the street, just as one would lean over a railing & look down I have seen this myself & can vouch for the truth of it. The people say that it is the Virgin Mary holding Christ in her arms & looking at the destroyed Paradise, & it really looks like it.

Rumour had it that a big fight would take


[Page 4] 
Place today but so far nothing out of the ordinary has occurred.

Our Division is commencing to move back from the front line and I think we will be on the move back in a weeks time. Anyway we can all do with a good rest.

It is raining off and on and on account of the heavy mists and clouds the Aeroplanes have to flie very low, consequently there is not much doing. The 1st Division train is moving in and I suppose will shortly relieve us.

I am compelled to use this book with perforated paper and I must be very careful with same, as I would not like to lose any after having kept it going for so long a period.

16.8.16 Wednesday
Had another wet night of it and woke up this morning to find all my blankets wet. Early this morning about 5am there was an exciting duel in the air. I heard a violent shelling in the air and could hear the shells screaming their way upward and on putting a pair of glasses on saw a German Fokker machine a tremendous height up. Our machines were much lower and seemed to have some difficulty in climbing to his height. However after cruising about, darting here and there 2 of our Battle Planes reaced the same elevation and then


[Page 5] 
began a fight for mastery . One could see the flame coming from their machine guns, against the dark background. After about half an hour good going one of our planes scored a direct hit and the last I saw was the German falling through the air in a slanting position towards their lines.

10 of our fellows retuned from Poizeres Contalmasison and Albert today where they have been attached for some time. They have all had lucky escapes. Losing only 3 horses on the trip. They brought back many souvenirs with them

The Germans are again putting shells into Albert and Bosancourt and just as I write our 15 inch Sleeping Lizzie is answering them. This gun is fired from a specially built Railway track, and to take the tremendous recoil, the Engine is set going in the opposite direction at full speed and only just succeeds in stopping it.

The 1st Division infantry marched in this morning together with all columns, after having had a fair spell.

General Birdwood has told us that there is going to be no spells for the Australians until the war is over so finis. One of our chaps was severely kicked by a horse this morning , and is very bad as a result of same. Blousins is in England.


[Page 6] 
17.8.16 Thursday
The main item of importance in todays course was the great activity of 
Aeroplanes. One flight of 30 machines was making for the German Lines early this morning & I feel sorry for the people they dropped their bombs on. 3 Taubes were set upon by some of out Battle Planes & after a very fierce fight which lasted for about half an hour one of them burst into flames & fell headlong to the ground, this satisfied the remaining two & they flew off to their own side, closely pursued by our machines.

The 4th Division have now moved to the rear, but the Lahore Artillery & ourselves have to remain in this locality for about 6 weeks, hard luck for us. I have just received a further batch of letters from you all and left off writing this afo to read them. Aeroplanes are returning home from their raids and the air hums with their noisy propellors. We all just witnessed a further combat between a British and German Aeroplane and the German was again brought down in flames. Our huge battle planes are death on the German Taubes and it makes us all feel a wee bit safer with our huge wagon park.

We have all been told that within 2 or 3 weeks the huge and dinkum offensive is to


[Page 7] 
start right throughout the whole front if this transpires I really think that it will be the beginning of the end.

We have again picked up the Railhead job and every morning the Waggons have to go out to Acheux to pick up the loads,.return to Senlis to re-issue to units and then take it out through Albert and Bosancourt to the firing lines.

Many horrible sights are to be seen through Albert, and where the old trenches use to run. Whenever our artillery sinks a gun pit it is a certainty that they will strike human remains as I think men are buried over every part of France. Then again when the Germans send their jackjohnsons or coalboxes over they generally blow an immense crater in the ground and blow rotten parts of decomposed bodies all over the place. The place fairly stinks and one is always pleased to get back away from it for a spell

In digging dug-outs , men sometimes strike the limbs of bodies, and it is a common sight to see an arm or a leg protruding out of the wall, both German and English.

As stated above it is most likely that we are here for another 6 weeks, and if so it will come my turn for the tramway job which is very dangerous, on account of being under


[Page 8] 
shell fire the whole time, but one can only live and hope.

18.8.16 Friday.

It rained again today and made the roads exceptionally hard for our work, which takes us over very difficult country. One of our horses dropped dead at Acheux and we had to put a riding horse in its place to draw the vehicle, afterwards sending a party back to bury him.

There is a heavy bombardment proceeding on our left sector in the region of Thiepval This place is a thorn in the side of the advance and is holding it up, and same being a wonderfully strong fortified position is going to cause some trouble.

Our sleeping Lizzie has again been severely strafing the Germans again and of course we have been getting a few returns.

The Aeroplanes are again very active and this coupled with the Bombardment which has just started is probably the start of a renewed attack. I understand that they have driven an immense mine lead right under Thiepval and we all expect it to go up in the air in a few days time. Cavalry is again active and if they can only break through there will be some fun on the Somme front


[Page 9] 
19.8.16 Saturday

Last night was another Hell of a night and the Artillery Salvoeff from the 750 guns on our sector was terrible to listen to. The struggle has again opened up with redoubled fury and our objective this time is the famous fortress of Thiepval: whether it falls or not is an entirely different question, but if we can only take it, the terminating point of the whole German position will have been reached and the Germans will find themselves compelled to retreat. As is only natural the struggle is of a terrible nature and each step gained is paid for in blood. But the latest news available is to the effect that the Germans are being slowly pushed backwards. Evidence of the heroic nature of the struggle in progress is evinced from the fact that a column of 1500 un-wounded prisoners marched through today. They were all sorts and sizes and each one seemed to be mighty pleased that they were captured.

On our right the French are doing well and by a concerted action with our extreme right flank carried the key positions to the Towns of Maurepas and Baupume, It is at the last named place that the Germans have their big guns mounted and the loss of it to them will be serious.

They realise the fact that they are being forced out of their impregnable positions


[Page 10] 
and consequently fight like cornered tigers. The French bombardment is very lively and we are all expecting news of the fall of Peronne, which is their objective.

The Black Watch have again distinguished themselves and to them lies the honour of the majority of prisoners captured today also to a very substantial advance.

We are having a particularly rough time of it now. Reveille being at 3 am and never getting to bed before 10 pm. We all got flooded out today on account of an exceptionally heavy downpour of rain but it is a case of grin and bear it.

Later
There are persistent rumours that Thiepval has fallen to us, but none of us believe it as yet, because on account of it being the key position of the Somme offensive we are all expecting a hard struggle for it, However everybody is anxious regarding the place and it will be a big relief to everyone when the position is won.

I closely observed some freshly arrived prisoners today in Senlis and really I cannot say much for there looks and physique and firmly believe that if they were not backed by such a huge quantity of artillery, that our fellows would walk through and through them.


[Page 11] 
20.8.16 Sunday

The bombardment never ceased all last night and in the early hours of the morning after a tremendous gradually eased off in its intensity. News is very scarce but one good item has come to hand 3 British Divisions advanced on out left flank and surprised the Germans took 3 lines of trenches and 400 Prisoners. A great number of officers were included in the number and it appears that they had all been summoned to a conference at a given point and our forces attacking in strength and with great rapidity took the lot. There were no more surprised Gentlemen in the wide world than when they found themselves looking down the wrong side of Bayonetss held in the hands of the famous Black Watch regiment. They were all brought into Achusen and will be taken to Harve enroute for England.

The Field Engineers depot situated alongside our bivouac, presents a very busylike appearance tonight as strings and strings of Motor Lorries with Pontoons attached are coming in. This to us looks like the anticipated crossing of the Somme River.

We saw 7 of our Aeroplanes bring down a German observation Balloon this Evening and as it was falling it burst into flames. It is not very often that one


[Page 12] 
can see a German Balloon up now before our planes effectively deal with it, but at the same time its presence is always felt, as par example of this Evening for although it was only up for a few minutes, it suffices to give them the range and at the present time we are being shelled by their big howitzers from Baupaume.

The whole sky is black with the shrapnel bursts and the sooner it gives over the better I will like it.

The day has been frightfully cold with a nasty bleak wind blowing and I do not know how on earth I am going to get on tonight if it does not get a little warmer. The Reveille racket of 3 am is no bon and we are all beginning to feel rather fatigued.

21.8.16 Monday

Today has been a terror, in that all the dissatisfaction of several past weeks came to ahead and all the NCOs were held accountable for same. I and several more offered to revert but no notice has been taken of it.

The new phrase of the offensive on the Somme still continues and the fighting is terrific. Thiepval has not yet fallen, but it is only


[Page 13] 
a question of days now, as our troops have taken dominating positions on either side of the Village.

Its defences are the most marvellous in the worlds and no frontal attack could ever possibly succeed in taking it.. Huge Cupolas built of steel and manned by heavy guns command all approaches, but these are gradually becoming smashed and I suppose when the time is ripe a fierce hand to hand fight will place it in our possession.

Numerous air duels are occurring hourly and one Taube unfortunately managed to drop a few bombs in Sausage Gully causing lots of damage and loss of life.

We are gong to be moved North again after this final flutter and as far as is known are going to Ypres, to relieve the Canadians who will come down and take their turn on the Somme Front, but from all accounts we are going to a pretty hot shop, situated somewhere near Popperinghe.

22.8.16 Tuesday.

This afternoon and practically the whole of the night has been by far the worst time I have yet experienced, and I will always remember it. Previous to the start of it


[Page 14] 
Some Fokkers and Taubes got over our lines and did some observing which unfortunately for us all was correct. Whilst we were sitting down to tea, we were all startled by the familiar hiss of a big shell and heard it coming straight for us. You bet we all ducked. It struck earth about 150 yards from us and caused a deafening roar sending dirt etc flying in all directions. A few of us went up onto a high ridge of land about 100 yards from us and sat down to watch the fireworks and I can assure you they kept it going. Shell after shell came hurtling over and it was almost terrifying to see them gradually creeping up towards our lines. I saw several large ones burst close by to us and it is truly an awful sight. One shell we watched go right plunk on top of a small bivouac and the remains of 2 men who were sleeping inside were never found.

Of course it goes without saying that during a long range bombardment of this kind, severe loss of life is always in it wake, as they rarely waste such valuable ammunition unless sure of profitable results.

Right up to about midnight this shelling continued, sleep of course being impossible. They seemed to be falling all round us and yet by good luck none actually got us, but at the same time I think that they are leaving us too long in the same position.


[Page 15] 
To resume the story of the nights experiences. Our Guns hitherto silent took up the challenge and then the row and racket began. On one side of us were 5.9, 8" and the other the big naval 15" guns. All night long they blazed away and my inside just feels as though it is turned inside out. They grew quiet this morning at 6 am but the smaller field pieces are firing furiously.

23.8.16 Wednesday.

Following on the big bombardment we have advanced at several points, and now hold 3 cardinal points which dominate the fortress of Thiepval and we are watching this struggle with interest. Our big guns are now trained on it but on account of the marvellous depth of the dug-outs some of which are 80 to 90 feet deep the artillery are unable to do much more than blow the topmost positions to pieces, which is being done. Huge 9 inch and 12 to 15 inch shells are causing the natural formation of the land to change. The struggle is a desperate one, as both sides are doing their utmost. The British are advancing step by step on either side of it, after having the way carefully and systematically searched with Artillery fire, whilst the Germans continuously feed their defences with their best and freshest of troops. According to Prisoners captured in the immediate


[Page 16] 
vicinity , it is a Prussian Guard Division that is now holding it.

On other sectors of the Front, good work is being accomplished and despite the fact that the Germans are still as strong on Artillery strength as ever, they are being slowly forced backwards, and must begin to realize by now that they are being slowly strangled.

The weather is again wet and the roads are very slippery. Consequently our transport duties are much harder.

24.8.16 Thursday

The Bombardment eased off this morning but opened up again this afternoon and at the time of writing are hammering away at a great rate. The chief items of todays doings is the great activity of the Aeroplanes. There seems to be hundreds of machines out and the sky is littered with puff shots of the guns, whilst the spent shells rattle all over the place.

Many duels occurred above our lines, but I did not see any brought down.

The fighting is reported to be particularly severe near Guillamont which is another position of strategic value on the Somme Front. Our boys who were working from Albert up to Contalmaison, Beecourt Wood, Ovilliers Flucourt and Delville Wood with Ammunition loads have been presented with illuminated addresses by General Cox their names are


[Page 17] 
Whelan, Hansen and Coolatas, E the last 2 named are both old 20th ASC lads, who came away from Sydney in our old Company. Persistent rumours are flying round that the Germans are preparing to retreat, but this is better believed when it is an accomplished fact, All the same the ranges of our guns have had to be altered to reach their positions and in some cases the big guns have moved up.

We are under orders to leave here for the North again so as to rest after our 1 months solid going, We entrain in a few days time, the 1st Division having already moved out. I hear we are going back to Ypres again, so I fail to see where the rest comes in, as this place [Ypres] is a 3 sided Salient and we catch it from 3 sides, However they know what they are doing.

A few more indignities have been placed upon our heads by the O in that they have ordered a big batch of Comforts to be placed in their bivouacs and what is left the men will get I suppose. The mens bivouacs have also been ordered to be pulled down as they look unsightly, this means they must camp in the open. What matter - They have billets, We are all full up and only await our chance of retribution on returning to Australia then it will be our chance.


[Page 18] 
25-8.-16 Friday
And 26 -8-16

Apart from the usual fierce bombarding and fighting nothing of unusual importance has occurred. Our forces have advanced a further 300 yards on a 1000 yards front near Thiepval also at Guillemont.

The weather has again turned out wet and it has not ceased for 2 days. A very cold wind is blowing which is a foretaste of approaching winter.

Our 1st Divisional Infantry has again moved up from St Ledger and goes into the front line tonight. The tramway job in Albert re-commences and I am getting a party of them away tonight.

We are all intensely interested at the course of events in Greece and are wondering what it will finally lead to. A big batch of comforts has arrived and I am just going to have a tin of preserved peaches and cream. Hear me smile.

27.8.16 Sunday

Today has again been wet and slippery with a bitter cold rain and blowing which chilled one through and through. I had to take a large convoy of waggons with supplies right up, and although under


[Page 19] 
heavy shell fire it was very interesting. I will try to give my actual impressions.

I left Senlis at 1 pm and taking the main road went through Bouzencourt which place is practically demolished. On the outskirts of this village you pass the chalkfields and it is a perfect demon of a job to get loaded waggons along as the horses cannot get a grip, and consequently down they go.

About 1 mile further on you strike the old 1st line of trenches and I can assure you that they have a sinister appearance, I suppose thousands of men are buried in the hastily dug pits all along the edge of the trench and the weeds which are now growing there coupled with the barbed wire entanglements, and with the crude little boards which just simply reads ("Here lies ? men ? company ) gives the place a ghastly appearance. The line of trenches can be traced with the naked eye for miles and for miles and every yard claims its victims. It has a great snake like appearance to view it winding over hill and dale as it does.

All along the road, in the gullies and fields are cunningly designed gun pits, some of which were built by the Germans in their retreat, Four miles further on the once beautiful town of Albert is situated and I must write something of the devastation which has befallen this city. By repute it is termed the


[Page 20] 
second city of the Somme and it has many beautiful buildings in it which are all mostly heaps of ruins. The Cathedral and its monument I have already written about previously but since then some more big shells have struck it and it is in a very shaky condition. A large Motor Car (Brasserie) and machine factory close by is just simply one mass of twisted steel. This building was built of steel girders and the way they have been twisted up is something marvellous.

Imagine a place like say Parramatta only with more up to date building and especially the beautiful Cathedral. Fancy to yourself that it was smashed to pieces and what was not smashed was burnt and you can form some idea of the damage wrought.

On passing through I had to move the column quickly as the Germans were busy shelling the place and big high explosive shells were sending bricks and stones flying in every direction.

Further out one comes to Contalmaison, Ovilliers and Poizeres and I absolutely defy anyone to see anything that would lead one to believe that there had been habitation there. Of course our own guns did this and it is probable that all villages wherein the Germans offer resistance will be similarly treated. Delville Wood which was so hard to take was on my right as I moved along and it was


[Page 21] 
being very heavily shelled by the Germans, the place La Boiselle is wiped off the face of the country. The British mined this and when I tell that 1000 tons of explosives were used in the one charge it will give you an idea of the magnitude of same. It was a particularly heavy defended position on account of the position of the land and warranted the cost. To look at the place now it has the appearance of a huge Brickfield Pit, The dimensions of the crater are Breadth ½ mile length ¾ mile, depth 1 to 30 ft deep. The Germans had frightful losses here on this occasion and assert that they have never experienced the like of it in their life, neither have I .
The stench of decomposed bodies is very distressing hereabouts and it is nothing to see human remains blown about by exploding shells. Our artillery when digging gunpits, often come across pits of men and have to fill it in and dig elsewhere.

I arrived back safely, however, I cannot honestly say that I want to go out again, but if I have to go well never mind.

28.8.16 Monday

Our HeadQuarters have again moved up to the front and I believe it is to be our final splash here for a while. The Germans


[Page 22] 
are again whipping some HE in and by the sound of same they are some close, although there are a lot of duds.

Aeroplanes are again very active so I suppose it means another bombardment tonight .It has rained hard again today and also been cold. No news to hand but rather fancy that there is not so very much doing, at the present time, Possibly waiting for some diversion in the Thiepval Region.

29.8.16

After a furious 3 hours bombardment by our big guns, all field pieces have been moved forward 2000 yards. This means to us that a further concentration of Artillery fire is about to be brought on the new Germans positions in front of us but I doubt whether our Army will participate this time. The French have been bombarding on our right and it seems as though they are preparing the way for a further advance, as there Artillery fire is terrific

We have received unofficial news to the effect that Roumania has declared war against Austria and everyone is jubilant over same as if it is true it means the beginning of the end of this great struggle, How ever they are going to fix things up after the struggle, licks me.

I saw one of our Aeroplanes brought


[Page 23] 
down just now. He was up a good height and a shell got him. The machine just seemed to rock for a second and then tilted nose down wards and started to come down at a startling pace. The Aviator made desperate struggles to right it and succeeded in steadying himself when about 300 yards from the ground, he dived from that height however and struck. Another plane followed him down but whether he rescued the pilot or not, I am unable to say.

They are exploding smoke bombs alongside our lines and the wind being favourable, drifts it along and entirely envelops our big gun positions thus hiding the tell tale flashes from the muzzles.

There is evidently something big doing today as all along the front the big guns and small ones are sending shells screaming in every direction. The Germans are by no means idle either, and shells are falling into Albert Bouzincourt, Millencout and the outskirts of Senlis every hour.

Another party of our men have been sent out to Becourt Wood to work with the Royal Engineers, this is a heavily shelled area, and they may strike trouble. A batch of 32 German Prisoners belonging to the new draft of the Prussian Guard were sent back to Warloy today, and from their looks


[Page 24] 
do not compare favourably with the Prussian Guard we read about early in the war.

It rained again early this morning but has since cleared up, although the sky still looks overcast and rainy.

Later
A terrific bombardment has started all along the front and the noise is terrible to have to endure. The shells go whistling along with an uncanny and sinister sound to strike the earth and explode with a noise like thunder.

At the present moment a terrible thunder storm has just eased off and while it lasted I assure you that it was not pleasant. The artillery fire never abated, and it coupled with the exceedingly heavy thunder claps made one think of home and mother. The rain pelted down in torrents and very soon the creeks and gullies were all running bankers. It was an awe-inspiring view to witness the vivid lightening flashes plainly siloutted against the devasted ruins of Albert.

It is now official that Roumania has thrown in her weight with the Allies and the million fresh bayonets that will be fighting will shorten the war considerably. Anyway we are all anxiously awaiting news of her first blows which will make themselves felt.


[Page 25] 
30.8.16 Wednesday

Today is really the worst day on record and to cap all I have very sever pains in my tummie, which give me gip. It is absolutely impossible to keep dry and warm. The wind goes right through us and the rain beats into every corner. This is one of the many hardships which we have to contend with and I honestly admit that it is fairly breaking my heart. God, what a country, Egypt was hot without any rain but this dam place has never been dry since we arrived here, and cold well I don’t think I will ever get warm again. Wet blankets to sleep in – consequently I am in a mad rage.

There is a very fierce battle going on which does not improve matters by any means and the Germans are tearing the shells in like fury. Of course they are not having it their own way by any means. The Bavarians are attacking the Australian 4th Division and so far they have not done much more than get themselves slaughtered. There is an unofficial rumour of another naval battle also Germans declared on Roumania.


[Page 26] 
31.8.16 Thursday

The night remained bitterly cold and it was impossible to keep warm. The weather broke this morning however , & the sun is trying to peep through the storm cloud.

Last nights bombardment was the hottest I have ever heard & the way the big guns fired was absolutely marvellous. There was not one seconds intermission between the various salvoes of fire. The cause of it was the desperate effort the Bavarian Guards were making to break our line, but although they tried all night long, the 12th & 13th Brigades repulsed them each time. It has quietened down this morning, but the Rifle 4.2 & 18 pounders are still very busy.

The Scottish Regiments are again marching in & to see them swinging along the Albert Road, with desolation on either side, & the pipes all skirling is a great sight.

Part of our division is entraining for Ypres today & I suppose we will follow on later to either Armentieres or Poperinge in Belgium. We are to relieve the Canadians then, so that they can have a go down here, several Divisions of them having already arrived here, A couple of Ulster Divisions are alongside us, & they are all fine chaps. There is growing animosity between the Tommies & Wallabies


[Page 27] 
1.9.16 Friday

I again went out with the convoy today this time going as far as Albert & branching out to the right of the City. Everything was in a state of bustle on account of Canadian Armies marching in. I thoroughly inspected the big 15" Naval Gun which does the damage & I can tell you she is some gun. The roads were all choked with Canadian troops, including many Scottish Regiments & I was pleased to see what a fine stamp of men they were.

I received 2 letters from Nina, one of which had 2 photos enclosed & I am very pleased with same, although it gives me a home sick feeling when I look at them. It was a surprise to see the great number of observation balloons up today, both British & German, This means an artillery duel tonight.

I was watching the 10" guns firing & through curiosity got a shock concussion caused through venturing too close to them when fired. No more for Rick I tell you. I also visited the 1st Line Trenches from which the Germans have recently been pushed out of. And I can tell you it would open anyones eyes to see them, miles & miles of barbed wire entanglements, pits


[Page 28] 
& entrenchments wherever you look. It is simply marvellous that our armies have been able to advance at all, & they have simply blasted them out of it & occupied their positions.

It gave me a pang when I saw the Canadian Scottish marching through Albert with shells tearing all round & it seems such a shame that such fine men should be sacrificing their lives in thousands & as the grave yards will tell you 
for the sins and errors of Kaiser Bill.

Great news is coming through from the Balkans but a reserve must be placed on a lot of it as some of it is of a startling rumour . None of us quite know how the Roumanian situation will affect this front but our conversations always get heated & we knock off.

2.9.16 Saturday

Today has held many surprises in store and I suppose when you get notification of what I am doing, it will surprise you, but circumstances coupled with overwork strain and worry decides me in taking the step, Also a promise of promotion in the near future, I will narrate the conversation as it actually occurred.

"On being told that several Commissions


[Page 29] 
had become vacant & that several of us had again been overlooked for juniors I raised a kick which led to certain interviews, the result of which was made apparent to me by Major C today, under instructions from someone higher up he stated that all transport Coms had be filled for some considerable time, but admitted that I had earned a star for past work also Certificate which I hold & also stated that there would soon be a vacancy in the Supply Section & to this end asked me to revert to the rank of Staff Sgt, which however is the same rate of pay & is really on the same footing. The idea is that, having the Transport experience by me, I can learn the supply part & thus have both at my finger tips, He stated that he knew I had been overworked lately & this would be a good chance of a little rest as there is not as much worry & work in the last mentioned duty. He further stated that he could promise me, that it would not be long before I got my Star & that I had the CO Trans influence behind me. All these facts together with the certain knowledge that I need rest has decided the course of action which I intend to take & hope for the results to mature at an early date.

It also means that I will not be tied to the Camp as formerly & consequently will


[Page 30] 
have better chances of seeing the country without the usual worry of entraining 300 horses wagons etc, which up to the present time has fallen to my lot.

I fancy it is for the best as I am breaking away from all old groves & one very certain thing, I was sure of that was that I suited too well as a CSM & would have ended my days as same, if I had not of stepped out.

War news is pretty much the same thing with not much doing. The aeroplanes are very busy & the anti aircraft guns are spitting out their shells in hundreds. In one corner I can count as many as 30 planes circling about, & from their actions it appears as though they are fighting hostile machines although it is too far away to discern very clearly.

I am heartily sick of the whole affair & I can assure you that it would be with a feeling of great relief if the war were to suddenly end today but no such luck, & I suppose that it will continue to drag on right throughout the winter thus adding a few more hardships to a rotten & disagreeable life. When I look at all your photos & think of the disgraceful manner things are carried out like here well, it makes me bile, & I can assure you I do


[Page 31] 
3.9.16 Sunday

At 3 am this morning a furious Artillery attack commenced & has been raging ever since. Everything else compared to this has been childs play. The news to hand is that our Infantry attacked an important position & held on to it like grim death being opposed by Prussian Guards of which 3 divisions have been hurried up to the line. The position at the present time is both curious & critical the Prussian counter attacked, but were stopped by our fire, whilst their artillery established a barrage of fire behind our fellows so that no munitions or reinforcements could be taken up. Our artillery did likewise behind them & it is now a question of artillery ordinance. Guns are being hurried up on both sides & it is a prefect inferno what the troops are suffering could never be adequately described, The 
Canadians are in close support & all officers say that we will be able to swamp them with the weight of our artillery.

A place that I was visiting yesterday was heavily shelled today & I am very thankful that I was not there today. We are moving on the 6th of this month to a place where "gas" is very prevalent, so am hoping for the best, although none of us like the idea of it at all. Preparations are being made for the winter so am resigning myself to it.


[Page 32] 
4.9.16 Monday

We have all had a very lively time today owing to Fritz putting over some of his big shells & strange to say keeping it up. It has occurred several times today & at the present moment has been resumed. He started by putting over a few "whiz-bangs" & has kept it up with high explosive, alternating with shrapnel at various periods for range & direction purposes. Owing to the humidity of the air, the explosives could always be seen before the familiar hiss in the air reached us. They were shelling a high ridge just near us, & about 500 yards away & can tell you it sent creepy feelings down my spine. You would hear a deafening report & see the earth spring up into the air for about 30 feet, whilst through the debris one could see pieces of iron & steel flying in all directions, Lots of soldiers were running to each shell burst to obtain souvenirs but I let them alone.

The shrapnel started next & although far more dangerous, owing to its spread, was not so bad on the nerves. One would hear the far-away explosion of the gun (which we can all swear to now) & a few seconds later a vivid flash in the air, together with a dense volume of smoke & a deafening


[Page 33] 
report would signal its message to us. They seemed to be shelling the road which all transport takes to Albert over the ridge & also the observation balloons on the Theipval Sector, which are situated just in front of us. They failed to get the later owing it deflating and being taken away in good time but they made a rotten mess of the road. However as thousands of men are kept busy on the roads not much inconvenience resulted. Our reply will no doubt be given tonight as 4 large Naval long guns have just gone through the village.

Our troops have taken Monquet Farm & firmly held it finally handing over to the Canadians who are relieving us. No more mention has been made of my transfer as yet but I expect it later.

5.9.16 Tuesday
The weather has again been frightfully cold for the last 2 days & tonight it is the dizzy limit. I am writing this under adverce circumstances seeing that I can hardly hold the pencil for numbed fingers & alas there are some French Sergeants here singing away in French like fun, & to one that does not understand the language it is extremely painful as I explained to


[Page 34] 
Monsieur Rouvet, who hails from Calais To say that he was amazed would be to put it mildly.

The furious fight still continues & the Germans are still putting shells over at us. Several of us had lucky escapes today. The DAC wagon had a shell explode beside 2 of them & pieces of jagged shell actually shot away pieces of the seat & the driver escaped to say that we went like blazes would express it very mildly. The drivers put their whips over the horses & tore along although there was practically no need, as the noise of the explosion was sufficient. One shell hit a Cape Cart & blew it, driver & horse to smithereens whilst a small Fox terrier which was actually within 2 or 3 feet of the burst was unscathed, but you should have seen him go.

The British & French have again advanced & have taken part of Guichy & all Guillemont. These are important villages & the way the Prussian Guard are counter-attacking speaks volumes for the importance that they attach to its loss. So far however all their efforts have been smashed by our Artillery Fire & the position is likely to remain in our hands. Thiepval seems to be the stumbling block on the line & here also there has been a success in that we have advanced 200 yards closer to its main defences.

There seems to be something more than


[Page 35] 
the ordinary doing tonight as the Big Guns have been firing all day & tonight have opened up with redoubled fury. We expected to move tomorrow but it has been put back for 24 hours owing to the 13th Brigade having gone back in close support to a contemplated advance by the Canadians – Tonight is Ricks Joy – Wet blankets & a bitterly cold night – I expect the same trouble again tonight as last viz. owing to the terrific gunfire our horses are terrified & all broke the lines & of course stampeded. This meant us all going after them at 1 am in a cold rain after them. Such is life.

6.9.16 Wednesday
- 7.9.16 Thursday

Both nights & days have been something vile & which will be remembered by me for some time to come. It proves to be further developments of the new Somme offensive & I can tell you all previous fighting which was severe enough has been surpassed. We have done exceptionally well having taken several villages & lots of prisoners & guns.

We moved back today, passing


[Page 36] 
through Acheux Ourville & several other places & are now bivouacked at Orvilleu which is about 2 miles from Doullens. It is great to be away from the front I can tell you & I will sleep more peacefully tonight than I have done for several weeks.
Later –

I did not have the sleep I intended to have as at the last moment I decided to go into Doullens so hopping up onto a motor I got a ride in . After having a look round I decided to return home & found that I could not get a conveyance of any kind. So subsequently had to foot it, a good 6 metres. It was rotten. Doullens is a Ville of 10000 inhabitants very prettily situated on the banks of the Somme . It has been a town of importance years ago & has castles with moats round them like olden days. I tell you it is great to get back into civilization again. We entrain for the north at 10.30 tomorrow night.

8.9.16 Friday
We moved on from Orvills to Anviliere tonight & commenced entraining


[Page 37] 
operation which were very heavy. However all things come to an end & so did this. After getting into our compartment we had previously had a [indecipherable] of [indecipherable] between ourselves & bought champagne, tinned fruits, cakes etc. & I can tell you we had a pretty lovely trip while it lasted. We then went to sleep on the floor in the racks & anywhere we could get & was awakened at 6.30 am by the guard who told us we had reached our destination , called code – Wauvelde near the Belgium frontier. Then began the work of disentraining.

9.9.16 Saturday

We finished offloading & had a cup of tea, looked in & moved off for an unknown destination. . After passing through much interesting country we stopped at Steenvord for dinner. I rode through this city & was much interested in all I saw. We started off then & crossed the Franco Belgian Frontier at 2 pm. Just after riding along from the Frontier I ran into Uncle Charlie whom I have not seen since leaving Egypt. I had quite


[Page 38] 
a long talk to him obtained his address & caught up to the column He is now with the 28th Bat 2nd Div.

We passed through Abeele & arrived at out camp towards night fall. Then began the usual routine of building horse lines. Pitching [indecipherable] etc & which tire me out. I finally went to bed very tired & might say slept well.

10.9.16 Sunday

Today has passed without much of any note occurring. We straightened things out a little & I then had a chance to look round a little. We are camped in a little village about a mile from Poperinghe & the same distance from Ypres. Both these Cities are very beautifully built, although there is not very much left of Ypres. It is worse than Albert. Part of Poperinghe are in ruins, but the main part is still intact.

It is curious to watch the habits of the Belgium people, their ways being far different to the French, They all seem to wear the clogs for foot gear in the country villages but in the cities they are beautifully dressed & the women folk all seem exceedingly


[Page 39] 
pretty. They all hail the Australians with delight, having become tired of the Canadians & Imperials on account of them having been here for so long & also I suppose the Australian pay.

One grave danger of this place is the frequency of gas attacks, & every time the gas alarm sounds one has to get up & fall in on parade with gas helmets on, & place nosebags full of wet hay lightly over the horses heads.

All the villagers are engaged on hops picking of which there is a very large amount grown, & all ages are to be seen in the hops fields picking away for their lives.

We are in rear of Hill 60 made famous about 12 months ago by the furious fighting & to all accounts, it will soon be the scene of further strafing. They say it is all under mined & expected to be blown up at any time. Things in the fighting line are dead tame here in comparison to the Somme & the comparative quietness is a blessing as 6 weeks in Albert was sufficient for Richard but I understand we are to go again later on.

11.9.16 Monday


[Page 40] 
nothing much to report. The weather is very cold here & totally different to France where I have just come from. The front is comparatively quiet compared to the Somme, but Gas attacks are very frequent & consequently one has to be always on the hop. I have not yet been under a severe gas attack but it is a moral certainty that it will come our way as soon as the wind changes owing to the British giving them a fairly liberal dose.

I went to a very pretty Belgium City this afternoon called Waerslade near the French Border. It is hidden away beneath tall trees in a valley with a big Convent overlooking it from the crest of a big hill. One cannot help comparing the attitude of the Belgian people to those of the French. The populace as a whole, especially the winsome lassies (who by the way are strikingly handsome) cannot do enough for one.

I am extremely puzzled over a letter received from Nina in which she states that I am in England. I have never been near there as a matter of fact, having come straight to France from Egypt last June

12.9.16 Tuesday


[Page 41] 
The old matter of my transferring to the Supply re-opened today and \i gladly consented, especially as \i was told that I was certain to get my Stars within a month. I leave the Company tomorrow and go in as a "Staff Sergeant. The work will be much easier, the pay the same, and \i will be gaining a lot more experience. Major C assured me that he was well behind me also that the Colonel had my name down for a vacancy already existing and that he was only waiting for me to pick up some Supply knowledge.

This coupled with the fact that I am in urgent need of rest decides me. Some have already told me that I am looking decidedly worried and after my 6 weeks experience in the Big Push down the Somme, I fancy I must be looking very careworn. Moreover it will enable me to do a little more letter writing than I have been able to do. This worries me immensely when I know that everyone is expecting letters from me and I am not sending any owing to my inability to do so.

If I get the Commission I am after it will be Requisitioning officer. The duties are to scour the country side for motors buying up supplies etc. for the Troops. Quite a nice job with plenty of time to do it in.


[Page 42] 
It is a bit of a pang to leave my little Pony of whom I am genuinely in love with, but it cannot be helpful & I suppose it is only me who knows how sorry I am in leaving him. I have had him now 9 months - in Egypt & France & during that time he has been constantly under fire & escaped without so much as a scratch. It is also a bit of a pang to leave all the chaps with whom I have been closely associated with for the past 12 months but again never mind.

13.9.16 Wednesday

I left Reningalt at 7.45 am & proceeded to join up my new unit as S.Sgt Supply 29th AASC same train. After a very monotonous wagon ride I arrived back in France at their lines at 2pm & went straight onto the issue. As far as I have gone it is a very decent job about 3 hours work & I am finished for the day.

My Section are a very decent lot of chaps among whom I struck 1 of the old [indecipherable] Boys & one from Merrylands named Len who is my clerk. The weather is bitterly cold & I can scarcely hold my pencil. I intend writing


[Page 43] 
to you all today , advising you of the changes & before it reaches you I hope to have my Star up.

14.9.16 Thursday

The weather still remains very cold & that my new work is very congenial & is running smoothly. 3 company Commanders have gone on leave to England on leave also CO train leaving Major C temporarily in charge of train. My time will come directly to have a look at the old dart I suppose.

War news still continues to be of a very satisfactory nature & the French are again doing wonders near Peronne. I took a stroll through Steenvoord which is in the nature of a large French City & it was very gay. Every second place is an estaminet & needless to state they are all full of soldiers, owing to the 13th Brigade being camped in this vicinity. It would do your eyes good to see the happy way all these fellows have with them & the whole town is simply one big uproar of various noises.

I understand we are going to winter on this front so am setting down to it. I am going out this


[Page 44] 
morning to look for a new supply dump as I am dissatisfied with the present one on account of it being so soft & muddy. All the Battalion QMs are very nice chaps and help the work considerably.

The French have put up a great advance round Peronne & we are all expecting to hear of its fall directly, together with Baupamme & Comble. All these mentioned places are big Cities & Railway centres. Consequently the Germans are holding on like fury but it is no good. The Allies Artillery is going to blast the Germans out of all their so called impregnable positions before very long.

15.9.16 Friday.

The weather seems to have broken & it now only rains off & on, but this is quite enough to make things very sticky underfoot I jumped on a bicycle today & covered a good few miles of country sight-seeing. A thing that I have not been able to do for many a month. I have now cut they job down to 3 hours per day. Good going eh.

There is not much to write of here, as we are a good way in rear of the line, whilst our Brigade rests & I can tell you it needs it. The Brigade went into the


[Page 45] 
Trenches when we were at the Somme & after taking the Train marched out 2000 odd strong, not withstanding the fact that it had been reinforced once.

16.9.16 Saturday

Another cold day, but I understand that the cold will continue now so we have got to become used to it. I rode a bicycle a few miles to have a look round & got in as far as Meteren && Fletre which was our old Billeting area. It is deserted now as there are no soldiers there at all. The 2nd Division are getting ready to go into the trenches on the Poperinghe & Ypres front, so it will be our turn next.

I received several letters yesterday & note that you still think I am in England. However I have sent a letter explaining same. Good news still comes through from the fronts.

17.9.16 Sunday

Today is a fine one & very pleasant. The supply work still continues to run on smoothly & is proving a boon to me, as I now have plenty of time to rest. I


[Page 46] 
never went out today & remained in my bivouac most of the time. Great news is to hand from the Somme front, the British having made a further big advance & captured a large number of prisoners. You will no doubt have read of the big Armoured Motor Tractors being used for the first time. These are gigantic things built on the Caterpillar wheel system & able to safely negotiate any hill as well as taking a 12 ft trench safely. They are armed with heavy guns & do an immense deal of damage when they get going.

There are persistent rumours that the Germans have asked for an armistice & if this is so, it certainly shows a weakness. In our opinions it will be impossible for them to hold such a big front during the winter months & everyone is expecting to hear of them falling back on a shorter front directly. Of course it will have to be very carefully planned as we have a nice little packet of 40,000 cavalry waiting to get through the minute the last line of trenches are reached.

The 3rd Division have not yet declared War, consequently they are still in England, presumably having a good time. To say that we are jealous would be to express it mildly.


[Page 47] 
The 50th Battalion moved from Steenvoorde today back to St. Omar, to undergo a school of instruction, so I suppose we will still continue to hang on here for some time.

Later.

It is snowing in England & we are getting the wind off it, consequently it is dam cold. The weather has again broken & it is pouring down in torrents.

I had quite an interesting yarn with an ex Royal Navy Officer (J Chesney) who was present at the bombardment of Lao Chou & & enjoyed every word of same.

18.9.16 Monday

The rain has been coming down in torents all day long & does not show any signs of abating at all. I am living fairly well at present & actually had a plate of stored mushrooms for tea tonight. I have occasion to send a few men out daily for green forage & they always search round for them.. This item will provide us with many decent meals in future as they grow in fairly large quantities in this district.

I received letters from home today & deeply regret to learn that Dallas Green has died of wounds. I am afraid that there will be many sorry homes in far away Australia


[Page 48] 

before this cruel war has finished, Our camping grounds are in a fearful mess, up to our knees in mud, but it is the same wherever you go, so it is no use trying to better the conditions.

I have a very quaint assembly for the Supply Section here, one chap is a Ragtime Singer & dancer off the Tivoli & he is very amusing another has spent most of his life in India another has been an officer in the RAN, whilst still another one held a high position in the Lunacy Dept, & being of a witty nature often keeps us in roars. One man comes from the Mexican Border & is full of devilment. This constitutes the majority of the men & a happier little party never existed.

19.9.16 Tuesday.
20.09.16 Wednesday

Tuesday was on a par with all other days with nothing of note occurring Wednesday was on the busy side chiefly on account of the long Distance our Section had to travel to issue to the Brigade which has moved up to the Trenches. We had to go right into Reninhelst which is a fairly big village on the Yser.

After finishing up the Sergeants & I caught a Motor Car to Poperinghe & spent the afternoon looking round & also having a


[Page 49] 
good tea. Poperinghe which was battered about during the Battle of Ypres in Oct. 1914 is a large Belgian City & is about the same size as Marseilles. The local Residents have all gone, but are gradually drifting back again, but the place is fairly full of refugees from other parts of Belgium, chiefly spies. Its main buildings are like all French & Belgian Cities immense Churches & Cathedrals which have in this case escaped destruction. The eastern part of the City is in ruins & by air all round observation of the shape of the Battle Front which forms a big salient it has had a very lucky escape.

We went practically to the outskirts of Ypres, which is about 3 miles further on. This City is larger than Poperinghe & although held by the British is practically razed to the ground. It is usually shelled heavily by the enemy every day. All the people about here seem to be either picking hops or making lace & give one the impression of being very industrious. I passed the old 14s camp but did not have time to see any of them. All this district is subject to gas attacks but the people as well as soldiers are used to it & taken in time, does not


[Page 50] 
prove fatal.

I finally caught a motor to Abeele & from there got another one over the frontier & back to Steenvoorde. We leave for Renighelst tomorrow to occupy our winter camp.

21.9.16 Thursday
22.9.16 Friday

Both days were occupied in moving up to Belgian Front area & once more we are sleeping to the accompaniment of the thundering of big guns. It is not quite so bad as the Somme but there happens to be a heavy battery close to us & when they fire salvoes which they do regularly right throughout the night it shakes our bivy.

We are all camped in Huts built close to the ground for warmth & it resembles a Rabbit Warren to look at it. We have a large stove in the centre of our hut & it is great to make toast on & for warmth. We are living well & altogether I think that we are as comfortable as ever we have been. It goes without saying that the ground is always swamped, being in the low parts of Belgium, or Flanders as it is called, but this difficulty has been overcome by laying duck boards down & digging trenches underneath, so that the water runs


[Page 51] 
away. The village I am now in is called Dickiebusch & is a rural kind of place with very rural people for its inhabitants. It is only about half a mile from Reninghelst & 3 miles from Poperinghe. This latter place always contains a large amount of pleasure for the troops in the shape of Cinema shows etc, but being so awkward to go to is not patronised very much by soldiers from our end.

The CO came back from England today having been away on leave. They are calling for applications for Cadetships in the Royal Flying Corps. I never heard of it until too late otherwise I might have had a go for it.

I received a very nice parcel from Nina today & was pleased it came at a good time & contents will be appreciated.

Now that we are so far North we can all feel the change in the Air, It is just like when we used to have severe frost in Fairfield only that there seems to be more sting in it.

I intend to have a ride round tomorrow to have a look at the country although one cannot go too far, on account of it being such a big salient, shaped something like this

[Simple diagram drawn] 

[Page 52] 
23.9.16 Saturday

It turned out a bitterly cold morning & I can tell you there was some sting in the water when having a wash. A German Taube paid us a visit this morning & to our surprise there was an Anti Aircraft Gun right alongside our Camp & the way the shells screamed through the air was a treat. They got all round him & we were cheering them every time they got closer but I fancy we would have cheered the other side of our faces if he had given us a bomb dropping exhibition. However 2 of our Battle Planes came up & he ran for it & we finally lost sight of them banking round one another in the distance. It is thrilling to watch an Aeroplane duel, everyone gets so excited & when our chaps score a hit they go mad. Taking them all through we hold supremacy of the air as they always run when they sight our planes. I was watching them descend and ascend at the Aerodrome the other day & they came down & go up by dozen. How it is they do not collide with one another is a mystery to me.

We are all amazed by rats in this place & on speaking to some Canadians who vacated this Camp they told us that all the way from here to Loos is overrun with them


[Page 53] 
They are of an immense size & fairly give me the creeps. They seem to wait until you put the light out & then they start & very soon the whole floor is smothered with them, kicking & squealing & seeming everywhere. They always follow the battle line up & live on the dead bodies. So you can imagine how ferocious they are.

I took a stroll round the surrounding country last night but feeling fairly tired returned to camp early & tried to go to sleep but what with rats & cold weather scarcely slept a wink.

Poperinghe was heavily shelled last night & yesterday evening & on account of same, all approaches to the City were guarded & no one was allowed to enter. I saw Shayne for the first time for some considerable period & the two of us are going to try to get to London together.

24.9.16 Sunday

Today has again been fine & everything that one might desire. The front has been a little more active & all night long the chit chat of machine guns & the familiar hiss of travelling shells penetrated the air & made sleep very hard for a long time. Situated on a hill, as our camp is, the ground.


[Page 54] 
gradually slopes downwards to the Battle Line & ends in a maze of marshes & dykes which dot the whole country hereabouts. A battery of heavy guns is consistently firing away on our right & so far the Germans have not answered for fear of disclosing their position.

I will try & give a description of the new British Engine which at the present time is the talk of the world.

Imagine a machine almost as large as a railway engine, on one gigantic caterpillar wheel on either side, heavily armoured & with small & big guns inside to say nothing of numbers of machine guns.

They can cross a 12ft trench easily & demolish an ordinary house by running against it or smash trees down. They can do a frightful lot of damage & generally work in liason with the infantry. They go ahead & destroy the German machine gun emplacements & so enable our troops to advance without serious loss. In my opinion they have destroyed hundreds of German machine guns since they have been used. The Germans are terrified of them & well they might be, as nothing but a direct hit of a high explosive shell can hurt them. They are like a big tortoise, they way they crawl in & out of the various places. Altogether I fancy they are a great asset to the Army & save a great lot of life.


[Page 55] 
25.9.16 Monday

The weather still remains fine & everything is nice & dry underfoot. Misfortune has at last overtake me in that I have become "chatty" [(Lice)] However I am working hard to rid myself of them & hope to succeed ere long. I have been very lucky to escape them for so long but this fact does not make them any the easier to bear.

I went for a stroll last night & ended up at a big farm house near Boshepe, The people were very hospitable & insisted on us calling on them again.

I have caught a cold in the throat the first in many a long day, but hope to shake it off in due course.

There is a nice breeze blowing today & & from where I am sitting I can see the huge arms of the Wind mills all moving round & round & grinding the wheat whilst doing so .

The front is gradually becoming more active the artillery fire is daily growing in intensity. The results of the late Zepplin raid over England is very gratifying & the news of the destruction of 2 Zepplins caused much satisfaction among the soldiers. Unfortunately there was more severe loss of life than formerly, but a lesson of this kind will take the daring out of others.


[Page 56] 
26.9.16 Tuesday
The fine weather still continues, although it is springing up windy. This means that we will have to watch the Gas, but on account of the wind being so high no attack is likely to come.

Big rumours are flying round of a Great British victory on the Somme front but nothing official has as yet come through. We did know however that the greatest bombardment of the war has been in progress for the last 72 hours. We can distinctly hear the rumble of the artillery here in Belgium & we are about 80 to 90 miles north of the Somme. The English papers state that it can be heard over there. We are all anticipating the fall of Thiepval & Combles & I rather fancy that these 2 towns are the objective of the next big attack.

Last night I went to a Farm House & made a study of their ways. All the farm hands roll into the one room for their tea & I`ll bet it doesn’t take them 10 minutes to finish. The Boss cuts the bread & by jingoe`s you ought to see the knife he uses. Their meal consists of a kind of soup with brown bread. No such thing as tea, I fancy they are decidedly worse than our own country yokels in their ways.


[Page 57] 
There was some excitement this morning owing to a couple of German machines paying their compliments to us. We were all disturbed by unusual heavy "Airgun" firing & on going to have a look , saw several Fokkers observing our positions. A shell got very close to one & in retaliation he immediately dropped a bomb. This came hissing through the air & seemed to be on top of us for the time, It finally landed in the village about 150 yards from us. I do not know the damage, just after this we began to hear bullets hissing downwards, one striking the ground about 16 yards from me. These were the spent bullets from our shrapnel shells & decided me to take cover which I did.

About half an hour later we sighted one of them coming back for dear life surrounded by 5 of ours & could hear them firing their machine guns at him. They finally got him over Poperinghe where he fell. The other one was supposed to have been caught by shell fire at Armentieres.

27.9.16 & 28.9.16

It is again raining off & on. These two days have been the most exciting I have yet had, as I had to visit the Front Line trenches & all communication trenches to inspect various food dug outs & their contents. Starting away from Reninghelst at 9.00


[Page 58] 
I went to La Clayte to Brigade Head Qus to obtain a pass & runners to guide me. My first call within range was the village of Pierstraat. This is always under shell fire & consequently is razed to the ground. After half an hours searching I found the dugouts I was after & finishing up hopped out of it pretty quickly as the Enemy was pouring shrapnel in. My next objective was Fort Toronto This I had to approach without cover, but finding a drain I crouched down & ran for it just escaping some indirect machine gun fire, which was being played on it from a German position on the Hill. I then went to the head of the Communication trench to start for the front line & support trenches. After walking, running & crouching for about 3 miles I got into the Front trench. After traversing the whole sector I came back again & was just in an attacked position although I could not say that I felt comfortable. I did not feel ill at ease until they started throwing minnenwarfers over. 3 of these came in quick succession & threw everyone off their feet & utterly demolished one sector of the trenches. However, by dint of machine gun & rifle fire, as well as bombs & our own artillery barrage fire the attack was utterly repulsed. They never got near the parapet of our trenches. I had the honour of using a rifle here & taking a share of the fighting.

After this was over I moved back to the support trenches & gun redoubts. This is more dangerous than the front line, on account of the


[Page 59] 
Artillery fire which is directed against it, It is an inferno of flying dirt & steel & I was sincerely pleased to be able to get out of it alive as all the time I was there, they kept a hot fire up on it. 

Our own artillery fire is very unpleasant, as the German trenches only being about 40 to 70 yards away, the shrapnel just grazes our own trenches & bursts on the top of the Germans.

I then went through Chicory Lane C.T.to Ridge Wood, where the various reserve battalions are situated & where our gun positions are. There was Batttery fire in progress & the vibrations made one feel pretty sickly.

After going round the Brasserie which is another hot shop I worked round through Yves, Voomeselles, thence round to Majors Copse, Captains Post & back to Battle Head where after a rest I returned home.

It is sorrowful to see the men who get hit. Those that are only wounded take it cheerfully whilst those that are killed are taken away & buried in quick lime. Whilst I was there one man was shot through the brain while another had his both legs blown off. Another his hand smashed & several others of minor consequence. The Germans were lying pretty thickly all over the place, their casualties being pretty severe or as one expressed himself, "These damned Australians can shoot some".


[Page 60] 
The 2 lines have been practically in the same position for the last 18 months & consequently there are plenty of graveyards in the vicinity. The majority are buried in disused trenches & covered with quick lime. It sometimes happens that after they have been buried the enemy bombed the place & the bodies are hurled in pieces all over the place. This is a most revolting sight, the smell is also terrible.

Many things one sees there could not possibly be believed unless actually seen. For instance at one stage of the attack the German dead were piled up about 5 ft high & they still attacked the live ones trying to crawl over the human parapet of dead only to fall themselves when they reached the top under the pitiless hail of machine gun fire, This is a murderous fire & nothing can pass it alive when they establish "cross fire".

The Aeroplanes are very active & dive within 500 yards of the trench & open on the trenches with machine gun fire. While I was there they cut an observation balloon loose killing the observer, & sending the balloon down in flames from bombs. It was an awe inspiring sight to see the balloon falling to earth in flames.

It may not be believed but it is true & I have seen it viz, a whole battalion of Australian pouring in a murderous fire on the attacking masses of Germans & crying all the frightful loss of life they were occasioning.


[Page 61] 
I was well satisfied with my sojourn in the trench & returned sadder & wiser than before.

29.9.16 Friday

The rain commenced again today but did not set in, although it is still rather dull with a cold wind blowing. Great success has been attained on the Somme & the British have now thrown the Germans back from the Ridge which the whole world thought impregnable.

There is a big artillery battle being waged here on the Ypres Sector right through to the Coast. I do not know what it means, as general opinion has it that there will be no infantry attacks here, but judging by the fierce artillery fire there is something doing. I heard however that that it is to prevent the Germans withdrawing men for the Somme front. My cold has loosened & I hope to shake it off completely by tomorrow, Everything is bustle in this region now to make preparations for the oncoming winter. I have had un-official orders that my Supply Section will have to move up in closer proximity to the trenches, which is no bar for me.

Everyone is looking forward to further developements in the Somme area & before long the whole front may be ablaze from end to end.


[Page 62] 
30.9.16 Saturday

Things are fairly quiet here this afternoon although a pretty strenuous bombardment was waged this morning by both sides. Good news is still filtering through. I have heard that a large Australian mail has arrived so am looking forward to it with interest as it seems to be rather a long time since I received a mail.

The weather is once more fine, but it is the dying flutter as we now only have one more brief month of good weather then the winter starts , but I`m hanged if I know where it will finish. There is a wretched machine gun just outside my dugout. Spitting away like furry & it fairly gets on ones nerves. Crack crack every minute of the day.

I was up at a machine gun position yesterday & it was trained on two cross roads about 3000 yards away, along which the Germans have to bring their supplies etc to the trenches further back the Ridge. You talk about cunning. The gunner would give a burst & then shut off for a half hour this period of quietness would give the Germans heart & they thought that the gun had moved to another position, when just as they would be crossing with vehicles & columns of men, away she would spit again & of course cause a lot of destruction & confusion


[Page 63] 
this goes on day & night & the Germans are searching all over the place with shell fire to try & find the position but being fairly well concealed they have not yet [indecipherable] They also have some of our roads under observation & do likewise. I was nearly caught the other day on one of these roads having lost my way, & very nearly blundered right onto a direct line of fire from them. Hearing bullets coming too close to be pleasant I glanced round & found that I was under observation from them. Quick as a flash I dropped into an old drain & sure enough a second after along came a shower of bullets from them, I think they fancied they got me as it suddenly stopped. I then crawled in behind cover & got for my natural. It was no bon believe me

1.10.16 Sunday

There was an unusual heavy bombardment this evening which seemed to be coming from the left of the Ypres Salient. The Germans were reported to be very busy erecting gas appliances in their trenches, but evidently our artillery fire was effective as no gas came over.

I took a stroll this Evening & called in at a farm house & had a cup of cocoa & by jove it was delicious. They know how to make cocoa in this country. All Units


[Page 64] 
are very busy now erecting stables for winter quarters & wherever we look one can see stables in the course of construction.

More promotions have come to light, but as usual they all belong to the family that runs them. & then they ask one to vote for compulsory enlistment, I know what my vote will be like.

2.19.16 Monday

Eight hour day in Sydney & a holliday . But it is no leisure day here. It has again started to rain & looks like setting in windy the mud is fairly deep.

I went to Boschip this morning & it was a very cold side as well as being on the miserable side. The guns are fairly active just now but I think it is only a reciprocal bombardment.

I was thinking of home today & the longing to be back is great, especially as the Head of our Unit is making himself felt in every way possible.

3.10.16 Tuesday

Another rainy day with nothing to do & plenty of time to do it in.

The Germans are sending over a


[Page 65] 
few High Explosives but they are falling in open fields, & doing no damage, As long as they keep their range at that, their only result will be wasted ammunition.

Great satisfaction is again expressed over another Zeppelin having been brought down This makes the 5th within 21 days, & considering the trivial damage done in comparison to the cost of their machines & the loss of highly tried mechanics they will be goff strafing England again.

Our machines brought down another observation balloon having killed the observer & cut it loose by machine gun fire it drifted over our lines, when one of our machines diving from a great height dripped a bomb on it & set it alight, when it hurlted down at a great speed in flames.

Our 13th Brigade Battalions have moved up to the trenches today, but it is a comparatively quiet front, so no startling events will mark their re-appearance in the front line.

4.10.16 Wednesday
Still raining & nothing doing. Last night there was a raid on the enemies trenches near Ypres which was successful.

At the present moment the Germans are treating us to some "Jack Johnsons" which make one want to keep out of their road


[Page 66] 
They plonk right down & sent up a fountain of earth & iron, but as long as they do not spoil the tea it is ok.

I received a letter from Mother & Father also one from Nina. I was surprised to learn that J Rolf is now in France & must keep my eyes open for him, although I do not know which Division he is in.

The 49th Batt. Fife & drum band is again treating us to a Serenade & I do not know which is the worst having to listen to them or Allemandes shells.

We have all been issued with the new Box Gas Helmet & they are some class The dash things nearly choke one when you put them on although they are twice as effective as the old style. Each one has a small tank of oxygen attached which is conveyed to the mouth by a rubber pipe running up through the mask.

This is the place where the Canadians caught it so hot when gas was first used ever since then they are very careful. There is an entire Gas staff distributed throughout the front having at certain intervals "Gas Centres". In the trenches there are electrical contrivances which are set on the same wires as those running back throughout the country. When there is a gas alarm these are set buzzing & everyone


[Page 67] 
has to have his helmet in the ready position for any immergency, both civilians & otherwise. There are also boards put up with small wind gauges & these always notify you the direction in which it is blowing. If the wind is blowing to us from the enemy the boards mark "Wind dangerous" or "Gas alert" when by signs the Germans are fixing Gas cylinders in their trenches it is marked "Gas alarm", & when the gas is seen to be approaching all the buzzars & hooters, church bells, tram whistles etc, start to buzz & keep it up all the time. The artillery also commence to send salvoes of shells into it to disperse the volume & also any premeditated attack. Altogether this Gas business is a pretty ghastly affair.

Again they never take risks, & even when we are emitting gas from our trenches the alarm is sounded & everyone dons their masks until the conclusion, in case it blows back.

5.10.16 Thursday
The political situation in Germany has become very tense with England, caused through Mr Lloyd George`s outspoken & clever speech to an American journalist & from the vindicitive storm of abuse the Central Powers have directed against us, it certainly appears as though it has struck home with full force.


[Page 68] 
The speech in question was to the effect that England was determined to fight on until a decisive victory was obtained, & general opinions expressed here are to the effect that Germany was putting out peace feelers through America & now Lloyd George has definitely dispelled them. If ever England was hated before it is decidedly worse now & Germany has stated that she will fight to the last man now, in an effort to squash the British. This as may be imagined is going to give us plenty to do, as every available man in their army will be hurled against our front. This is apparently what is wanted & besides being ready for anything that may come, it will hasten the end & of the ultimate issue there can be no doubt. "The Lion is roused who? Can quell him, certainly not Germany This is the chief topic of conversation prevailing among us at the present period.

It is still very windy & raining & shows no signs of abating at all. Our front is very quiet & there is scarcely a shot being fired. We can hear a dull rumble on our right which seems to be coming from Loos. Our old Bull Dog named Mosey came to light today he had evidently been retained by some other unit. I did hear that he had come from details England


[Page 69] 
6.10.16 Friday

Still raining & windy & very unpleasant generally. I kept indoors as much as possible to try & keep warm. Our stove was fed with coke until it became white hot.

There has again been a disruption in the Train owing to O.C. ordering a Staff Sgt to revert to his former rank of Corporal. He is lodging a general complaint & we are all watch the result with interest. Fighting is very quiet on account of the rough weather which makes all observations impossible.

7.10.16 Saturday.
These two days have been occupied in moving camp again. It was decidedly a very annoying & disheartening order as we were very comfortably situated for all wet weather having a nice big room, but now we have to go & live under a tarpaulin again. However after a fairly strenuous time we managed to rig one on a frame work of wood. It was a solid job as it was raining & windy & each time we managed to get it in place the wind would get it & away it would go.


[Page 70] 
The 50th Batt came back today & the whole Brigade are going up to the trenches again.

Three of us had rather a merry time last night to commerate the finish of our hard job in erecting our bivouac, We started off and walked towards Ballieul keeping this side of the frontier as it means arrest for us to cross to the other side. We eventually came to a place called "Canada Corner" after the Canadians who before they relieved us on the Somme, have been camped there for 14 months, The place is now full of middle aged Englishmen who relieved the Canadians pending our arrival & have since stayed there (RE Engineers) An Australian was a curiosity to them & they would drag us into an Estaminet & treat us. After getting away from there we went further along the road & then decided to take a short cut home. We were all jolly & very often found ourselves in private Yards. However we took a course for the road which we had to strike & got into a private yard & could not get out. The dogs were all barking at us & the people jibbering. While I kept them engaged my 2 mates raided the clothes line & then ran. I caught them up after a while & saw that they each had a bundle of washing on arrival in camp we got a light to see the stolen goods & judge our disgust


[Page 71] 
when we found that we had carried home a bundle of babies napkins, Such is a soldiers life. We now use them as wiping up towels. This is the first time we have ever had a convivial evening with "Tommies" but they were all middle aged men which account for it. The younger men being unbearable.

9.10.16 Monday

The rain has given over & dry weather once again reign supreme, although one always know that it is not for long. In fact the seasons are known here as being 3 months winter & 9 months wet weather.

I went into Balleiul in France today on a bicycle. The distance was about 24 kilometres & am feeling fairly stiff on it. This is a fair sized city & at one time has been a pretty lively place. Its business side is now all military on account of it being a railway centre. It is where we entrained when going down to the Somme from Armentieres. Its chief points de advantage are now mainly "high prices & fever". Some malady has broken out here with the result that all Estammets & public places are closed & out of bounds to troops whilst the only available shops have seized the opportunity to raise their prices. I bought some fruit at the following


[Page 72] 
prices. Pears 1 fr each = 10d, Apples half franc 5d, Haircut 2 fr, 1/8 & half franc for assistant?

These are some of the prices existing & all food stuffs are practically the same,, Made to suit the pockets of Australian soldiers or as the French people say "Australia plenty money".

I received 2 registered letters from Nina & seeing that I was looking forward to some mail they were very pleasing to me.

Two "tanks" are reported to be up on this front now. So there will be considerable activity shortly. The entire front is at the present time very quiet. Due no doubt to the rough weather we have been having lately. They are taking advantage of the fine weather again down on the Somme & this mornings news contains a fresh advance & a good few prisoners.

10.10.16 Tuesday

The day has passed without anything of any note occurring save that I have had two of my corporals placed under arrest, but hope to get them out of it. Something is about to happen on this front shortly as a French Army Corps has moved up to the Belgian Sector of the Front. Also a couple of English divisions. Some of the famous "Tanks" have also put in an appearance. The front where the next push will take place is a dreadful piece of country, & has a large


[Page 73] 
canal running between the opposing forces. This of course has to be crossed & will naturally present many difficulties to our men. The land is very low & cut up into various waterways. We are all naturally anxious as to the results of same but seeing that the Germans have had to deplete their strength in this region to reinforce the Somme most of us are anticipating favourable results when it gets into its stride.

The weather is once more wet & the next thing to look forward to is a few hours dry spell. It is very annoying to think that the rain is interfering with operations so much when there is such a dreadful lot at stake.

11.10.16 Wednesday

The rain has dropped but an icy cold wind is blowing & I can assure you that it goes right through one. I went for a walk to have a cup of coffee late in the evening & when I returned found a good number of the company had been over paying respects to the 13th Battalion who were under orders to move. They all returned under the influence & started singing & playing the accordion. About an hour later some of our bright .O. made a raid on them. With the result that several arrests were made. This kind of thing is having a


[Page 74] 
very marked effect on the Soldiers & there will be serious trouble if it does not soon cease. The charge against my two corporals I formerly wrote of was dismissed, which gives me every satisfaction. The whole truth of the matter is that the .O. having nothing to do are constantly preparing treacherous traps for the NCOs to fall into & it takes ones whole energy & wits to keep out of it, such is the contemptable nature of a few men on whom position has suddenly fallen & it leaves them as conceited as possible. I myself am heartily sick of the whole affair & wish it was all over.

Again in reference to leave. It was supposed to be only granted to men who had from £10 upwards in their pay books. Yet the first to go away are batmen, some of whom are in debt, but they are careful to explain that it is special leave, but it interferes with ordinary leave just the same, and as the leave is for 10 days & 2 cannot be away at the same time you can judge how long it takes for a turn to come round

12.10.16 Thursday

The wind is still blowing cold & it is very hard to keep warm, it is an absolute moral that it will blow up rain again.

Several of the old 20th Company called in to see me today & they have all got on exceptionally well, on account of them having


[Page 75] 
gone to a newly formed train. The 5th Division are going to the Somme to take their share of the "Big Push" & there are also rumours to the effect that the 3rd Division have now declared war & will be coming from England to go there also.

Severe shelling took place on this front today & lasted all night long. Which means that there has been another raid on the German trenches. These raids are kept up & prove to be very demoralizing, as they keep the German casualties up & also bring back useful information of the disposition & strength of enemy forces.

The 1st Division moved out from here today have entrained at Boschepe for an unknown destination. The move blocked all roads & made our columns late.

General Plumer reviewed the 4th Brigade today & they looked very well marching along the road with fixed bayonets, although their ranks are sadly depleted, since coming from the Somme.

13.10.16 Friday

A highly successful raid was carried out on the German trenches last night & as a result 420 unwounded prisoners were passed back this morning. It was a daring raid & carried out with great dash & daring by Australian troops. After a very fierce artillery


[Page 76] 
bombardment which was directed on the enemy front line trenches. The fire lifted & played on the 2nd line. Our Brigade then leapt the parapet occupied the front lines, digging the prisoners out of their dugouts & passing them back, this procedure was carried back to the 4th line, when the Germans receiving large reinforcements, our men fell back to their own line, a fierce barrage fire covering their retirement . They destroyed the trenches & did great damage & it is regarded as a great & daring episode in the lives of the Anzacs. These raids are causing great havoc in the German ranks & keep their nerves strung very high, it is the kind of thing that is wearing them down. This episode shows that the trenches were ours for the taking of them, yet orders were, that we had to fall back to our original line, once again proving that the longer the German line is, the more he is becoming exhausted.

The wind has now dropped but the sky is still overcast & rain is threatening. I shaved my upper lip today as orders came out that it is now optional whether you grow moustache or not.

We all went down to be "gassed" today to try our new Box Respirator helmet. After careful instructions as to how to use them, we were all carefully fitted & marched into a chamber, & closed in. Lackurmatory


[Page 75] 
Gas was then released & we had to stand for 3 minutes in it. My helmet fitted me nicely. & apart from a stinging sensation in the eyes which turned them blood shot, I felt no ill result. Some however, whose helmet did not fit them too well, caught it hot, & they would throw themselves at the door & tumble out, with water running from their eyes in streams. This is caused through a badly fitting helmet & same is condemned. The ill effects pass off in a few hours. The new helmets are made on the German system only being very much better on account of different chemicals being used to absorb the various gases. It is a face mask which fits tightly round the face. A tube to go in the mouth, same being connected with, a tank containing chemicals which turn bad air into oxygen. The only inconvenience is a little suffocation.

14.10.16 Saturday

Weather still dull & windy & very cold nothing of any note occurred. We have heard unofficially that we move from here in 2 weeks time, leaving a man in charge of the camp so evidently we will not be away very long.

I was speaking to some members of the 14th yesterday & they say they are being worked to death. Hear me smile


[Page 79] 
a stove out of an oil drum & put charcoal on it until it was red hot. If this weather continues there will be a lot go out to it, & yet the O. have not got enough humanity about them to cut out [indecipherable] parades which are unnecessary. The worst features of this weather is the way it affects the feet. I had 2 pairs of socks on & then could not keep them warm.

There are many rumours about our next move, the 1st Division having already gone, but no one knows where we are going to. I went out to obtain some coffee this evening but the cold drove me in again & eventually l turned in only to lie awake all night with the cold.

17.10.16 Tuesday

I went to Oudderdom today buying green forage for Brigade Horses & on the way back passed about 200 German prisoners near the Divisional Baths where they had been treated to a bath & clean clothes. They were a very sorry looking lot & all appeared to be on the young side although it would be hard to accurately gauge their ages on account of the heavy growth of beard which adorned each ones face. They looked at us some winked & altogether seemed very pleased to be prisoners--. For them the war is over & until peace is declared they will be fed & clothed, not a bad position to occupy these times


[Page 80] 
The rain is again coming down in torrents & once more I have wet blankets to sleep in. There was a fairly big bombardment last night which shook things up again. The weather is still bitterly cold & a ray of sunshine would be appreciated buy all hands.

18.10.16 Wednesday

The rain got the best of me & I moved out of the Bivouac into a vacant tent, which although much colder is more dry. It is not nice to be ankle deep in mud where you sleep. The bad weather has evidently come to stay & the last few days & nights have been cruel. The place is an absolute swamp & I can honestly say that my feet have not been warm once.

There is evidently a raid in progress on the Ypres Salient at the present time, which can be judged by the fierce fire of the Artillery. Up to the present it has been fairly quiet, but at the moment the Brigades have commenced Battery Fire Rapid which means that a curtain or barrage fire is being directed against a given place. So far the Germans have not replied. A thing which struck me as being peculiar came to my notice today in connection with concealing a big gun, & the artful way it is done. In a small village called Veastidot, where most of the houses have been razed to the ground there stands one two storied place which has had the roof & inside blown out. Down in the foundation of this place a big pit has been dug & an immense gun put in on a


[Page 81] 
platform which can be elevated. When the gun is to be fired the platform is raised & the muzzle of the gun just peeps out over the top. A few [indecipherable] rounds are fired & the gun lowered. If the gun were not fired whilst you were in the immediate vicinity, you would never know it was there

All along the road which runs through here big screens have to be put up to stop the view of the enemy who occupies a position on a ridge of hills opposite, & when ever in this particular place it does not do to linger, as one never knows when they will rake the road with machine gun fire. It was here that I unconsciously wandered in the open & only escaped by flinging myself flat in a drain & crawling out of sight. Lots of chaps are going to Hospital with various complaints, caused no doubt by the very wet weather.

19.10.16 Thursday

Several things of importance occurred today which I will recount. To begin with it rained hard all day & was very cold. Whilst at dinner 1 pm we were all notified that there was to be a general Parade for all hands at 1.30 pm. We fell in on Parade & were marched to an adjacent paddock where another company of the train was drawn up. We were placed with our left flank on them & the remainder formed in a square. A significant thing I noticed immediately was that all the officers were on Parade. The whole thing in


[Page 82] 
a nutshell was the degradation of a Coy Sgt Major who was tried by CM for drunkenness & found guilty the Prisoner was then marched into the square & after the charge was read out. together with the finding of the court, a Sergeant detailed for the job stepped up & tore the crown from his sleeve. He was then marched off as a driver. This harshness had its effect as will be seen, although the minds of 90% were already made up. Following the scene we were all told to stand fast & record our votes for Conscription. Everyone looked at his neighbour & it would not have taken much brains to have read every fellows decision. They then started the polling & let me state that through the usual officers red tape, we were kept on parade in torrents of rain & a bitterly cold wind for 5 hours to record our vote, what is only natural for the result of same to be. In speaking of it afterwards we found that 90% voted NO & in the first Division the No`s had 99%. But this was only the start of the days happenings. At tea time we were all warned that the Germans were preparing a gas attack & consequently we had to lay down fully dressed with our helmets ready what a night – I never slept a wink & the cold was cruel.

The threatened attack never came off although the firing was violent & in the morning I awoke to see the whitest frost it has been my lot to gaze on & the pains of my hands & feet was well nigh unbearable. The violent firing still continues . Another 14th Coy. Sgt joined this Coy today (Sgt Hallett)


[Page 83] 
& he makes the 3rd Senior NCO to leave the old crowd we are gradually getting together again in a new company

20.10.16 Friday

The morning broke that cold that I nearly shivered to juices. The worst feature of all is that there being so much mud & pools of water about that it all freezes & one is plodding over ice all day. This thaws during the day & of course makes everything sloppy underfoot. My main enemy, also lots of others is the feet. They do not get warm all day & are extremely painful & tender. I was hauled up in front of the General today owing to there being a shortage of fuel for the trenches. This is not my fault, although I had to take part of the blame. Just after this along comes the Staff Captain bawling out for me. However I tendered an explanation & don’t give a dam whether it was accepted or not.

Very fierce fire is taking place here now, owing to the Divisions changing over, our Brigade being relieved by an Imperial Brigade from the Somme. There is still great conjecture as to where we are going but time will prove it. So far no one knows.

21.10.16 Saturday

It is again painfully cold & I can scarcely hold the pencil. The frosts have now definitely set in & everything is freezing. All the creeks


[Page 84] 
& pools of water are frozen over & in some places thick enough to bear our weight add to the discomfiture a cold wind has started & blowing off the frost & so it makes it hard to put up with. The hardships have now started in earnest it is a question how long one will be able to bear them. My feet are simply Awl amp; I can scarcely put my boots on.

Several Taubes came over today & a party of us narrowly missed being smashed We were standing on the dump when we heard a shell hissing towards us. We dropped down behind a sand bag wall & it just missed the top striking earth a few yards away. We went to the spot & after digging down a couple of feet, got the shell which was a dud. It was a narrow escape, & we were all thankful it missed us.

Big bombardments are taking place daily on this front now and the Belgian people cannot understand it after the comparative quietness for so long. They say Canadians no bombard when they here, why Australian?

I have made a bag of my bed by sewing a covering of bags over my blankets & although very rough it keeps me warm of a night. I received a mail of newspapers but no letters & am wondering where my mail has got to lately

22.10.16 Sunday

Another heavy frost & bitterly cold in consequence


[Page 85] 
of same. Our Division commenced to move out today & we go on Wednesday. The "Tommie" relieving us have already arrived. It is a moral that we are going down to the Somme again, & I suppose just in time to participate in the push for Baupaume. This is going to be a terrible fight for possession of this place & one cannot tell how we will get on. But from what I can hear it is absolutely essential for its capture at an early date. It is hard lines to leave the camp we have prepared for the winter & go & live in the open. I reckon it will just about finish me. The Brigade comes out of the trenches today & after resting will move out to the concentration area.

I received a letter from [indecipherable] today & they are still in England. None of us can understand why they keep them there so long, but I suppose they know what they are doing. In the meantime the other Australians in France & Flanders still refer to them as the Division which has not yet declared war.

Aeroplanes are again very active & we are all expecting the bombardment which is sure to follow, following on the changing of Brigades.

23.10.16 Monday

The weather is not so cold today as previously but it threatens rain, which is sure to come. We are getting ready to move & it hurts to have to go & sleep in the open & on the ground in weather of this kind, It is very funny


[Page 86] 
the number of rumours that are going round as to our new destination, but I fancy it will all end on the Somme again. Some big bets are being made, & excitement prevails. So far it is not known to anyone at all. The Brigades are now out of the trenches & I believe we go to Wipinhoek tomorrow. This is a Rail Head & may mean entraining for any point.

The motor column is now delivering to us from Caestro & it is much easier for our working.

Several flights of aeroplanes crossed today towards the German Lines, evidently on a raid. No doubt we will get their reprisal tomorrow. I hate their aeroplanes to come across as not only do you risk their bombs, but our guns start throwing shells all over the place, & we get the benefit of the falling cases or pieces of steel. I have seen the whole sky one mass of smoke explosions.

24.10.16 Tuesday

Very cold & raining hard. Whole company busy making preparations for the move in the morning. Have just received instructions that I have to move off at 5.30am to Opoutre Siding so will retire early

25.10.16 Wednesday
26.10.16 Thursday

Reveille at 4.30am Wednesday & after a hasty breakfast I started my Section off for Opoutre


[Page 87] 
which is about 6 miles. After a most wretched march through the wet & slush & across all kinds of country we arrived at our Dump only to find that it had been shifted about 1 mile further on. I jumped on a motor cycle & soon covered the distance. The rest of the day was spent in receiving & issuing during this time I stood for 6 hours in the heaviest rain imagineable & then had to walk 2 miles through mud & slush back to the transport lines. Arrived there & found no tea so did not bother & turned into bed, but not to sleep as it was too cold.

Next morning I marched my Section to the siding and entrained at 10 am. It was a cold and miserable ride for a few hours as our feet were wet through and cold and my chillblains gave me gip. However, we [indecipherable] the time away by playing cards and singing etc until it got so very cold that everyone was too miserable to say a word. It was the worst trip I have ever done and ever want to do. Imagine being seated in a plain wooden carriage, cold as ice, with no light and driving rain outside.

We pulled up at big Cities such as Hazebrouck, Calais, Bologne & Abbeville. Whilst at the latter place a large ambulance train of wounded passed through. We finally dis-entrained at one of the oldest and prettiest little places call St. Riquiet [St. Riquier] at 2pm in the morning. After standing in the rain for several hours we


[Page 88] 
got the baggage off & moved to a prepared billett to rest. Throwing ourselves on the floor we tried to get some sleep but the intense cold defeated our object. By this time it was growing daylight so I decided to get up & have a wash.

27.10.16 Friday

After washing in bitterly cold water I had a bit of breakfast & took a walk round the village. One place of interest was the Cathedral Ancient writings on the wall showed it to have been started in the year 600 by a monk named Saint Ruquiet. It is a marvellous piece of archicteture & the inside built on modern principles was wonderful to look at. I left this place at 10am per foot for Ailly a distance of 6 miles. Arrived there very tired & commenced issuing. The rain again poured down & I am now perfectly satisfied that fine weather is a thing of the past. My section is now quartered in a barn which although rough will be warm.

Ailly is an old place of a few thousand inhabitants and in the Department of the Somme, but a good way behind the Line. Our future movements area unknown as yet, but it is presumed that we will rest for a while.

28.10.16 Saturday 
& 29/10 16 Sunday
Both days were mainly taken up in


[Page 89] 
reissuing. It was made a heavier job on account of not having to do a double issue and so get 24 hours ahead. The Motor Supply Column has been arriving late and consequently throwing us out of our ordinary run.

Our Australian Cadets for the Royal Flying Corps are going to England on the 14th of next month. They are forming a Mule transport Corps for work at the front where it has been found practically impossible for any other transport to work on account of the terrible way the ground is battered about. We move up another stage in a few days time and very soon we will once more be embroiled in the furious struggle on the Somme.

30.10.16 Monday.

After a few weeks expectancy a good mail arrived for me today from all round. I received a great surprise however to learn that Edna had been operated on and unfortunately I read the later one first, consequently I did not know what was the matter. However the news of a later letter stating that she was recovering was ok. I read it in a poverty and war stricken place called Ailly and my thoughts were by no means pleasant. It is bad enough to put up with things here without other worrying cases.

The rain has been coming down in torrents


[Page 90] 
All day and the ground is one mass of mud. There is not much doing up at the front on account of the terrible cut up state of the country but if we once get a few fair days it will open up again.

31.10.16 Tuesday
To 2/11/16 Thursday

There were monotonous days, with very heavy work to do. It rained all the time and we always used to have to unload from supply column and check in the dark. Some French people opposite my billet were very good and often gave us dainties. The proper name of the village is Ailly Le Haut Clocher and it was a very pretty little place of a few thousand inhabitants.

3.11.16 Friday

We moved today towards the front line. I left at 9.30am per road and walked about 4 miles to Moufflerc. Arriving here we all proceeded to have a few coffee and cognacs to cheer us on and while sitting in the Estaminet heard a Motor Column coming. We made a cornbeef rush and just caught it. We went on through most hilly and picturesque country to a place called Flexecourt which is a large town. Here we regaled ourselves


[Page 91] 
once more and moved on again. Our next place was Picquigny where we left the column, as they were proceeding to Amiens and we were bound for Vignacourt. We walked about 7 miles and finally arrived at our destination. It is a large place and we are fairly well situated. I am sleeping in a loft and it is warm which is the main item. There is plenty of life here as well as troops. I think we are staying here for a few days and then moving on again. The weather is again threatening and I fancy will rain before long.

4.11.16 Saturday

The Motor Column having arrived early I was able to get the issuing over and have a look round the town, It is a fair sized place and thickly populated. There are two big cathedrals here one of which is very ancient. We are just within sound of the guns now and our next move will probably take us well up. I understand we are to do a month or so here and then move either to England or the South of France.

It has been raining heavily and a high wind has sprung up which is also a very cold one. A good number of our chaps are


[Page 92] 
going sick and when we move further up and have no shelter I dread to think of the consequences.

5.11.16 Sunday

A strong wind has been blowing all night and has brought up more rain with it. lt is also bitterly cold and one cannot get warm. Our chaps are misbehaving themselves again and the coffee and cognac seems to be everything the devil with them. It is best to keep away from the mob as they do not care a jot how far they go.

We move from here on the 8th of the month, so far I do not know where we go to. I was going to try and run to Amiens which is the capital of the Somme or Picardy district and is a very large city The front is very quiet due no doubt to the wet weather..

The Italians are doing very well again and important battles are taking place which will have a great influence on different parts of the front giving this winter a chance for alternative surprises. Next spring ought to see the war near to a finality

6.11.16 Monday

Rained all day and was most miserable. To make


[Page 93] 
[Page missing. Make up later] 

[Page 94] 
Provincial Cities of France, being Capital of the Somme District. It has marvellous cathedrals & buildings built therein & altogether being built in a Valley has a very pretty appearance. It is a very gay place as are most French Towns. It was from here that the Germans drove Railway men & women into Germany in the early stages of the war. Their Cavalry however was quickly driven out & they did not get a second opportunity.

After crossing the ridge above the City the trip lay for the most through isolated villages & woods all of which looked very pretty. The leaves for the most part had fallen from the trees & they looked bare & desolate. We finally arrived at our destination after 4 hours going & are once more back to the stern realities of warfare.

The place we are in now is called Buize on the Ancre. Its a filthy little farming community with not enough room to swing a cat in, The whole of the 13th Brigade being billetted here, By this time we were all wet through & feeling very miserable & our minds were not improved when we had to walk all over the place to find our quarters. However, we at last were shoved into an old barn & after dumping our kits went straight to the supply dump & received the column. We were then kept at it in the pouring rain until 10pm when after loading


[Page 95] 
surplus supplies onto borrowed ambulance wagons we returned to the billet & commenced to fry steak for our tea. This finished we turned in & never moved until 9am next morning.

8.11.16 Wednesday

Raining hard & very cold. The column arrived at 10am & we have been working right up to 4pm. The transport arrived at 12 noon after a rough passage & the whole village was soon one mass of vehicles, all looking for their respective camps. However after about an hours confusion things quietened down again & once more resumed the normal.

The Battalion returned from the trenches today & they looked very sorryful & miserable. They were mud plastered & tired & altogether done up.

It came out fine this afternoon & aeroplanes were fairly active. Distant sounds of artillery fire reached us this afternoon & several explosions of bursting shells came from Albert way.

9.11.16 Thursday

Rained all night & came through our barn like a sieve. Our Blankets were 
saturated & we spent a rotten night of it. All of us have caught colds & it is 
a regular coughing match among us. There was considerable


[Page 96] 
excitement here this morning. A disguised German Plane was hovering round very low & with our colours on. Goodness knows how long he had been there without any notice being taken of him. When by some means or other he was recognised & a tornado of shells were sent at him from all directions. He immediately began to manouvre & ascend & at first it seemed as though he would get away but a salvoe of shells was seen to burst round him & the machine quivered & commenced to come down finally falling about one mile away from us. We were all watching previous to his being discovered as a disguised plane & it came as a shock to us.

10.11.16 Friday

Last night reopened old acquaintances in as much as we were once more in the clutches of a German Bombardment, although as yet being a safe distance away we could view it with perfect tranquillity. The German guns thundered all along the sector & our guns answered them with every ounce of effort they had.

They also played a high old game with their Aeroplanes, & it being a full moonlight night it was a sight to behold. There were dozens of machines darting all over the place, & the Anti Aircraft guns were thundering away at a furious rate. They succeeded in dropping a few bombs


[Page 97] 
on Amiens & other villages. & one dropped about 500 yards away from our dump. Two Taubes were brought down of our own side I could obtain no information.

I have just been notified by S.O. to be ready to move up to Montauban on Monday. This place has already figured in the Press as having been the scene of furious fighting & is about 3 miles from the front line. This points to us, as going to be a rough time & will be glad when it is over.

Some QMs who are camped in Fricourt & Mammetz Woods tell us that they are up to their knees in mud, & as we are going further on it looks decidedly unhealthy.

I have caught a severe cold & do not feel too good on it. I cannot sleep at night & have all the symptoms of influenza.

The first Division appear to have caught it fairly strong again & as it is now coming on time for the 4th to take their turn, our minds are becoming sobered & we will once more resume a serious life until well away from the Somme again.

11.11.16 Saturday

Last night was a beauty there is no doubt. To begin with a furious bombardment commenced all round at 9 pm & kept going all night. It was just one scream of bursting shells all the sky was quivering & a dull red glow on the horizon marked the flashes of the artillery.


[Page 98] 
There was evidently a big stunt on, the news of which has not yet come through. It is still proceeding & the fire is growing in intensity. There was a serious raid by Aeroplanes & we were kept on the hop. They dropped bombs all over the place & a few fell on a Field Hospital about 700 yards from us & killed 8 AMC men & wounded 45 others including a lot of patients. Guns were screeching all round us, while the rattle of machines guns on the Aeroplanes could be distinctly heard as they engaged one another.

One Taube was seen to fall in flames & explode when it hit the ground. On the whole it has been a terrible night, & I would be glad to see the clouds over the moon & put an end to midnight raids. One can stand them in daylight, but they are uncanny at night. Meanwhile the fighting still proceeds & before the next 14 days are over, Baupaume should be ours,.

My cold is still very troublesome & does not seems to mend, but it is the constant trudging about in the wet which does. It.

12.11.16 Sunday

We moved off for the front at 9am & catching a Motor Lorry got a lift as far as Albert


[Page 99] 
where we were all dumped & told to find our way to Fricourt where we would issue. After ploughing through mud knee deep we halted for a rest & were lucky to get another lift on a Motor Lorrie. The roads were very congested & miles of traffic were all held up on account of the hard pulling , we eventually reached Fricourt, which is the old line of trenches & which was the first village taken in the British offensive. Of the village itself nothing remains save a few scattered brick & bare tree trunks all twisted & distorted.

The ground is all broken & is heaped up just as through a Volcano had taken place & misplaced the whole surface of the country.

The more pathetic sights are clearly evinced one either side of the road, where grave yards containing the bodies of British French & Germans will always bear testimony of the furious fighting which took place.

Two trenches about 40 yards apart winding over hill & dale showed the relative position of both force before the attack , the Germans having the better part on account of them holding the ridge which encircles the village.

I was informed that I would be in Fricourt, with apparently nothing to do until nightfall, so decided to make a close inspection of the trenches both British & French to prove the correctness of the tales one heard of the strength of the German trenches. I will now record my opinion on same & will state plainly that everything is the plain unvarnished truth. I went on my


[Page 100] 
exploration with the view in mind that a reign of stalemate existed in this region for 2 years & consequently much time was available for perfecting the defences of which I am writing. Of the German trenches themselves, they present a very sorry appearance, having been battered & torn about by the terrific artillery fire which they were subjected to. To a depth of 10 feet the fire was most effective but beyond this depth not much damage was done.

The trenches wind in zig zag all over the place always presenting an angle to the line of fire & in each bay of the trenches, marvellously executed work in the shape of dugouts & underground chambers are built.

These dugouts or underground passages run down to a great depth, one in particular being 100 feet below the level of the ground. The entrances are well finished & boarded in, properly built steps lead down, some of which have several flights of stairs & fully 20 bedrooms & chambers leading off from each flight.

Air machines on top pump the air down through tubes & in one case there was a light railway track constructed which worked by a windlass.

The value of such construction is at once apparent, during a bombardment the defenders can leave the trench & remain in perfect safety, until the fire ceases then re-appearing they were always able to repulse all attacks. However this availed them little against


[Page 101] 
the avalanche of shells of all calibres which were hurled against them in the 1/7/16, as the world already knows & I will endeavour to give my opinion as to how they were beaten.

During the bombardment all the sides of the trench were blown in leaving just the pieces which contained the dugouts. Our troops were able to storm the breaches & acting quickly with bombs were able to either kill or take prisoners the men underground.

Two out of 3 of them are now filled in & contain the bodies of the dead defenders. One passage I must make reference to was situated on the brow of the hill. This one I went down fully 150 feet and did not reach the bottom. My candle going out & being unable to keep it alight warned me of the presence of foul air so I returned to the top. What was down there is open to conjecture. I finally returned to the camping place impressed with all I had seen.

At 5 pm we moved off for Montaulban which is close to the line & also a place which took many lives to capture. The traffic was terrible & it took us 6 hours to travel 3 miles or more. The country is awful to look at being battered & torn about whilst the mud & water is up to your thighs.

The transport horses were done up when we reached the village & only 3 wagons out of 14 that started reached their destinations.

The first thing that greeted us on arrival


[Page 102] 
was a salvoe of shells from the Germans & from what I can see of the place & the direction the shells came from, we are going to be very lucky men if we get out of this place safely.

After getting some water on to boil we looked about for shelter. I eventually found a tent which is not much protection from shells but it was a cover for my head & that suited. Just about this time Fritz put some more over & they were dangerously close. One threw mud all over the tent. The others fell in the vicinity .

We are unfortunately in a very dangerous position being camped just in front of the Rail Head. This as is only natural is a vital stragetic point , & the Germans knowing same are trying very hard to get it. This makes it most unpleasant & I will be sincerely pleased when we get right out of it.

My cold is still troublesome & very irritable at night. I went to bed but not to sleep. The shelling still continued to come over & passing over our heads with the old familiar but sinister hiss made sleep impossible.

At about 4am the guns opened up a heavy bombardment, & seeing that there are some naval guns alongside us, sleep was an impossibility. The firing ceased at dawn and I slept until 9am.

13.11.16 Monday


[Page 103] 
Most of the day has been spent on the dump on account of the utter confusion of the traffic. the holdup in all traffic is unavoidable on account of the terrible nature of the road & the way the shell torn country is battered about. It is marvellous to think that this devastated country was once of a smiling & agricultural nature, now it is awful to look at. Gaunt & isolated tree trunks are all that is left of forests & a few scattered bricks mark where once prosperous villages were situated.

Old Fritz with habitual regularity is trying to make us shift our camp & unfortunately he is beginning to get closer. This afternoon he landed one over which everyone thought was right here. It landed however just over the railway trucks right in among a camp of guardsmen, who fortunately had just moved out, otherwise there would have been serious casualities. Since I have been here there have been about 6 killed & a lot wounded.

I do not anticipate much sleep tonight as the guns have opened much earlier than usual.

I do not profess to be a hero & I can honestly say that the sight of these exploding shells causes many anxious moments after they strike it is alright, but hearing the hiss coming towards you & not knowing where they are going to hit is absolutely unnerving.


[Page 104] 
14.11.16 Tuesday

We passed another terror of a night & it is still continuing during the day. Shells are falling fast & furious & to speak the truth, they have us fairly bluffed. Under cover of a fog Fritz has sneaked a couple of long range guns up & is peppering us properly. At 6.30 pm last night our guns opened up a terrific bombardment & kept it going the greater part of the night. Regular sleeping was impossible & one could only catch alternate intervals between the tremendous roars of the big guns. Unofficial news came to hand that we had captured Letransley but is not yet confirmed.

The early part of the morning was not quite so bad but it opened up at dinner time again. A very bitter pill for us to swallow is the fact that Fritz has a couple of observation balloons up which can observe our positions, & we are sure to feel the effects of his observations tonight. Already he has commenced by putting over a few haphazard shots, but they are too close to be comforting.

The planes are out in hundreds & wherever you look, you can see little puffs of smoke which denotes bursting shells.

One plane was brought down in flames but I do not know whose it was. It fell in the German Lines.

Traffic is still congested & I do not think it will be right again until warm weather sets in & dries the roads


[Page 105] 
15.11.16 Wednesday

Another hard night with scarcely any sleep . If we are kept here very long one will be utterly worn out for want of rest. A couple of big naval 15 inch guns have been firing from near our camp & the vibration nearly brings down our hut each shot. A terrific bombardment was maintained all night & only quietened down towards dawn.

A very sudden thing happened this morning, we were all standing talking on the dump when all of a sudden a terrible explosion occurred We saw the earth shoot up to a height of 40 feet or more. As none of us had heard any shell scream over we looked for the only other natural cause, viz in the air, & sure enough after a few minutes searching we espied a Taube flying among the clouds. How he missed us goodness only knows, probably an error of judgement anyway he got quite close enough.

After going some little way he turned & came back again & you bet we all scattered. He dropped some smoke bombs no doubt to give his gunners our direction & then started into us with a machine gun, as far as we know there was one killed.

This has been the coldest day I have had on an abundance of clothing & my sheepskin vest over all, but


[Page 106] 
my feet being like blocks of ice made me feel fairly miserable all day.

They have approached me to take up Depot Sgt Major whilst at Montauban, over three Brigade Coys, & on the understanding that it is temporary I have agreed to act in that capacity. A batch of 3000 prisoners has been passed back through our cages, having been taken by the Guard Division.

Troops still continue to pour in & everything points to a big battle being fought for Bapaume. At the present time Fritz is again shelling. Whilst our guns are heavily engaged in shelling him. Everything points to a heavy fight tonight.

16.11.16 Thursday

Last night proved to be in keeping with all the other & we all very nearly gassed ourselves. The weather being so utterly cold we made a fire of coal & coke in our hut & did not notice that all ventilation was blocked. As a result we all inhaled the poisenous fumes & have been vomiting off & on ever since.

It is extremely hard to keep away from the spirits this weather but after a certain little indulgence I had I am not going to have any more.

We have had the worst day experienced & goodness knows what the night will bring. This morning broke without a cloud in the sky


[Page 107] 
& bitterly cold the whole ground being frozen over at 9am when the parade was in a flight of 5 German Planes came sailing over & immediately started bombing us & the various camps round. We all scattered & waited for them to go. They dropped a few bombs close to the road & then started with their machine guns. This was worse than the bombs & we spent many anxious moments. Our guns now got busy & turned them, when our planes appeared & drove them back. All day long we have had to watch the sky, but our planes have managed to keep them back except in isolated cases.

At dinner time Fritz opened on us with his long range guns, evidently on information provided by the planes & got all round us. One shell hit about 10yards from a full parade of mule transport men, but did no damage.

Another fell among horses & caused some little confusion. Altogether it had been a very discomforting day & once more I must say that we will be lucky to come out of it unscathed. Many big guns are taking up position close by us, which does not tend to make one easy in mind as they are sure to search for them when they open

17.11.16 Friday

Anniversary day of my Au revoir to relations & friends & needless to say my thoughts


[Page 108] 
have been of them & many incidents have come to my memory of the last days in Australia & I am wondering if I will be home for the next one. I have been day dreaming most of the day only coming out of my reveries when the hiss of a shell passing over would send ones heart into ones mouth.

The intense cold is playing up with us all & I can assure you that the hardships are both great & numerous. I have given up washing & shaving as one suffers for too many hour after each time. The ice this morning averaged 9 to 12 inches thick it is still laying on the ground. Needless to say my chilblains are very sore.

There was the finest display of Aeroplanes to-day that I have ever seen. I counted as many as 40 planes in one place. There were many duels & we saw one fall from a great height. Another one fell on the top of a hill which the Germans could see & not one of us was game to go & have a look at it, as Fritz was putting in shell after shell in an endeavour to smash it up before night fell. It is a prize worth going for as the pilots & observers always have beautiful coats on, made of long fur. Several of our boys have already booked some.

Fritz has been putting over a few occasional shots. He pestered the very life out of us


[Page 109] 
this morning with his planes but they were quickly driven back.

Great rumours are round of a Big push again coming off shortly & as the DACs are working hard in bringing up ammunition it certainly points that way. We are right up in a pronounced Salient where we are & things are made very interesting for us from both points of the Salient.

18.11.16 Saturday

Last night proved to be the limit as far as coldness is concerned & each one of us had a fairly miserable night. To add to our discomfiture big naval guns commenced to fire & our little shack nearly fell down with the vibration. Aeroplanes made daring raids during the darkness of the night & altogether things were exciting.

In the morning a wondrous sight met our eyes as a heavy fall of snow resulted from the intense cold. Wherever you looked it was one white sheet. After daylight a cold sleety rain commenced & it cut one to the bone. I can assure my readers that it is the worst experience ever I had, to have to go out in the snow & scrape off a foot of snow to get to the supplies. We were wringing wet & chilled to the bone with no immediate prospects of warming ourselves. One blessing was that


[Page 110] 
Fritz let us alone. During the day a Bale of sheepskin clothing arrived & it was hard work to keep the chaps off them. It is very hard to manage the men under these conditions & when the spirit ration is brought to light things are much worse.

I received a few letters today which were like a straw to a drowning men & God alone knows how eagerly I read them, as it is a good while since I received any. This is the anniversary of my departure from Sydney & if you were to only see the ground & know the hardships that we are living under you would know that it is not all beer & skittles.

All the time & despite the terrible nature of weather & ground conditions, our attacks are being pressed home. As no doubt your papers will tell you. Taking the year right throughout, & through all circumstance I never suffered as I am now.

19.11.16 Sunday

Another cold day but no snow There has been furious bombardments all round the salient & old Fritz continued to put them over at us. We have been busy running round chasing after lost trucks tonight & we are by no means in a pleasant mood.


[Page 111] 
Some of the heads came up & paid us today although what we can do with money out here is a mystery to me. The mud is now knee deep again & very hard to walk in on account of it being slippery.

20.11.16 Monday

The weather still continues to be very cold, with alternative showers of icy cold rain thrown in. We had plenty of German shells to keep us company last night & the way they whistled through the air, fairly made me sick. The naval guns close by us opened up at about 9 pm & kept at it for a couple of hours making sleep impossible. They silenced Fritz however as he was afraid of giving away his position.

Our supply trains have not arrived so far & we have advice that they will not reach here until 1am in the morning. This is not very pleasant as it means unloading & checking in the dark & slush. The only thing I am hoping is that the Germans will not send over any shells, as it is hard to watch everybody at night.

Just as I am waiting a few observation Balloon are going up. This as usual means more shelling both by Fritz & us. The 2nd Div are moving back to Vignacourt but I fancy we are staying here. Our Battalions are coming out of the trench & moving to Becourt


[Page 112] 
21.11.16 Tuesday
& 22.11.16 Wednesday

Both these days and nights have been by far the worst I have as yet experienced & tonight bids fair to out rival both. To begin with I have had no sleep for two nights & days owing to pressure of work.

On the night of the 21st our train was derailed about 3 miles this side of Albert & consequently we had to set about getting the supplies up to Montauban. This was finished after working all night & after having breakfast we again turned to & issued . During the day we received notification that we & all the other Divisions would receive our supplies per Motor column on account of the railway break down. After waiting until 10pm I posted a guard & turned in but had not rested 15 minutes before I was warned that the column had been sighted. Then began a night which licked all creation. The Motor Column which consisted of 150 lorries had become hopelessly mixed & was strung out for miles & was arriving in batches of [indecipherable] with all Divisional supplies also mixed. Our only alternative was to throw it out on the side of the road & try & sort out in the morning which we started to do. At this junction a lorrrie skidded in the mud & became fast on the [indecipherable] of the road & blocked the traffic. We got this unloaded


[Page 113] 
& the vehicle shifted when whiz came a shell & then we got the devil shaken out of us.

Imagine our plight! 150 odd lorries to unload up to our knees in mud, & shells exploding all round. Nor was this all, at about 1am in the morning the fog & mist lifted & over came some German planes. They dropped some bombs on us but did no damage until they were driven off by gunfire & a few of our planes, By this time we were just about dropping but sticking to our guns & with a final burst we succeeded in completing our task by 3 am. We then turned in until 8am & after a snack, re commenced our days duties. We finished up by 12 noon & the supply train having come in proceeded to unload it which we finished by 2 pm & then utterly worn out we dropped onto our beds & slept until 6pm. At the present time 7pm one of the fiercest bombardments I have ever heard is in progress & the atmosphere is just reeking with gun powder which makes one sick.

Rumours have reached us of the fall of Peronne to the French. Monasti to the Servians & Lemberg to the Russians. I hope these are true.

23.11.16 Thursday

I receive my first wound.

This day has been a demon & writing of it after in hospital I shudder to think of


[Page 114] 
what I & all the rest went through. At about 8am we were all startled to hear a huge shell come screaming through the air & we all knew from the closeness of the burst that he had our range. The gun was also a new one of a big calibre & from what I afterwards saw of an un-exploded shell judged it to be a 12 inch. After this with clockwork precision they came over & bursted all round us. Somehow I had a feeling that I would get into trouble & this is how it came.

We were all standing on the Railway Line talking when over came two beauties which made us all throw ourselves flat being so close & I had scarcely got to my feet again before I heard the whiz of another & a roar. It actually burst on the road a couple of feet from where I was standing. The force of the explosion carried me off my feet & hurled me 10 yards away among some cases. Lucky was I that the main bulk of the shell burst backwards otherwise there would have been nothing left of me at all, as it was a small piece of shell penetrated my steel helmet & inflicted a scalp wound which laid me out for a while. After I had been taken to a hut a perfect tornado of shot & shell came over & inflicted many casualties, also doing a lot of damage to the Railway Line & siding.

The shell which wounded me killed two


[Page 115] 
poor chaps on the other side of it & they were twice as far from it as me. It dug a hole about 30 feet deep in the road & turned carts & horses upside down in all directions. After the bombardment ceased & while I was being taken to the field dressing station I could not help but notice that there were dozens of poor wounded chaps all round. The total casualties in our unit alone was four killed & 16 wounded. Of the sights of the dead I will not speak as they presented too horrid a sight, But the way the shell hurled men about in the air was terrifying to look upon.

All the time their Aeroplanes rained bombs down which however did no damage & they were ultimately driven of & lost 3 machines.

After passing through the dressing station I was put into an ambulance, together with others & brought to Grove Town Clearing Station situated near Bray, It is a British Hospital & I appear to be the only Australian here. There is a Manchester man on one side of me a Seaforth Highlander on the other & between them they keep me amused.

24.11.16 Friday

Still in Grove town & much better. My wound is not deep & is healing rapidly & soon I will be out again. Many pitiful cases are coming in & I wont


[Page 116] 
stay here any longer than I can help. It is a funny routine one goes through here & consists of opening your mouth for the thermometer & keeping your bed clothes straight & tidy.

Altogether I am not feeling well but am not too bad. They have shaved the hair away from the wound & I am half bald.

25.11.16 Saturday

Grove Town Hospital

26.11.16 Sunday

Was moved today from Grove Town Hospital & taken on small trucks to the Hospital Train on the main Line from where I understand we are being shifted to Rouen Hospital.

27.11.16 Monday

After spending all night in the train we arrived at Rouen at 9am & were carried out to the waiting ambulance & taken to No 5 General Hospital. I am under observation as my temperature keeps high & I am troubled with headaches.

27.11.16 to 10.12.16

In Rouen Hospital & marked for England. Left by ambulance at 10.30 pm & was


[Page 117] 
put aboard a train for Le Havre. Spent all night in the train & was unloaded on the following morning.

11.12.16

On board the Hospital ship. "Wirilda" which is an Australian Hospital Ship. Crossed the channel, sea smooth, tied up outside Southampton all night & went into Harbour next morning.

12.12.16

Unloaded & put aboard British Hospital Train destination unknown but thought to be close to London. 7.30 Train pulled up in Oxford & was unloaded & brought to Cowley Section. No. 3 Southern General Hospl where I suppose I will be for some time

12.12.16

Headaches rather bad & x rayed.

14.12.16

Have been told that nothing can be done for my complaint & will have to grin & bear it what the outcome of it will be I cannot say.

The knock has given me meningitis but I intend to fight it hard. A strange thing is that I was always frightened of the


[Page 118] 
Days
4 France-	Hospital -	23/11/16 to 26/11/16 -Grove Town
14 - Hospital -	27/11/16 to 10/12/16 -Rouen No.5

51 - Hospital-	11/12/16 to 31/1/17-Oxford No.3 Cowley Sect. S.G.H.

164-	England	Hospital-	2/2/17 t0 14/1/17 -Dartford No 3. A.A.H

61 - Hospital-	15/7/17 to 14/7/17 - A.H.ship Kanowa

39 - Hospital-	15/9/17 to 24/10/17 - Randwick

Total 333 days


[Page 119] 
Saunders
Bond
Stubs
Chesney
Allen
Wood
Reynolds
[indecipherable] 
Nutman
Cpl Sowby
[indecipherable] 
[indecipherable] 
Brown
Savage
Doherty
Cliff
Mills
Grace
Devereaux

[Transcribed by Rex Minter, Val Ridley, Adrian Bicknell for the State Library of New South Wales]
