Mitchell Library, State Library of New South Wales

James McKenzie diary, 21 January 1916-19 September 1917
ML MSS 1985/Item 3


[Page 3]
Jan 21st 1916 to Sept 19th 1917.

This scene was the cause of much merriement amongst the men on board but there was no joke as regards the men who were in the water struggle for their lives. Had leave off duty from 3 o’clock till 8.30. Spent the time with D. & R. stroll through the town of Alexandria. Had a good look around the town. There are a large number of Scottish Regiments stationed in the district.

It was like a "breath from the hills o’ home" to hear the old familiar scotch dialect and to see the troops in kilts and tartan trews.

Having been under restraint for so long the members of our unit had made a day of it and the majority of them came back to camp late and in a drunken condition and full of the jollity that accompanies that condition.

Jan 22nd Sat.
Had leave from eleven o’clock to-day. Drove out in a "gharry" to the Catacombs and had a look through these wonderful tombs. After paying a visit to the catacombs we took tram to a delightful suburb called San Stefano and there had tea.

Lt. Col. Newlands is our new O.C. There are a few new officers attached to our unit.

A large number of troopships have arrived in the harbour these last few days.

A great deal of more jollity caused to-night by men coming in to camp under the influence of drink.

Jan 23rd. Sund.


[Page 4]
Paraded at six oclock and moved off at seven to A. Camp near Alex. Rain fell during the evening.

We fared pretty well with regard to food in this camp. Nine men occupy each tent.

When one gets in amongst a crowd of men the same subject always crops up namely despicable talk as regards women. The conversation may commence on religion but it invariably finishes up with women.

Owing to the way in which some of the men are behaving when they get out on leave only twenty five per cent are being allowed out on leave at one time.

A little Indian soldier had made a fireplace in the open just outside one of our tents. He was baking a scone on it and out of curiosity a few of us had gathered round to watch him. It was very interesting to watch him knead the dough and then place the scone on the girdle. One of our number, we always find them in our midst, one of those who play jokes at other peoples expense, put his foot on the iron. This roused the Indian’s anger and he went and told the S.M. It appears that an Indian will not eat food touched by an unclean person, that is a person who is not of the same caste or religion as themselves, hence the anger of the Indian when the utensil which he was using was touched by an unclean person.

Went to the Soldiers & Sailors Institute in town. At this place


[Page 5]
one could have tea and cake for very little and read and write or enjoy numerous recreations as they wished. This place is taken advantage of by many soldiers and sailors.

Behind the counter Sambo, a black Soudanese, showed his pleasure by grinning all over and showing his beautiful white teeth which showed up conspicuously against his jet black face as he served (he served) each individual with what he wanted, cigarettes, tea & cake etc.

Worshippers of the god Bacchus in trouble again this evening.

Jan 24th. Mon.
On fatigue at the A.O.D. We are re-equipping our hospital having lost everything on Gallipoli.

Read, "A Social Departure" by A.J. Duncan. A very instructive and interesting book to those who are travelling, this being a story which carries one in imagination all round the world. Many of the experiences which the two characters had and which are written about in this book are experiences which I have had myself.

Jan 25th. Tues.
Very stormy during the night.

A.O. Fatigue to-day.

Had leave to-day. Wandered around town. Pretty cold wind blowing. Weather showery.

Jan 26th. Wed.
Jan 29th. Thurs.
Our hospital equipment loaded at the station to be sent to Ismailia.

Jan 28th. Frid.
Left the camp in trams at


[Page 6]
at seven fifteen for Alexandria Station.

Thousands of bales of cotton were lying at the station. This cotton is grown in Egypt.

Huge tracks of country are covered with water.

Large numbers of native labourers are making roads and digging the canals deeper.

This part of Egypt is splendidly irrigated by a splendid system of canals.

Impressions this time are pretty much as I have already described in the earlier part of my diary.

No hedges or fences divide the various fields one from another, the furrow seems to mark out the field.

Oranges are in great demand by the "boys" and are eagerly bought up by them from the native sellers at the various stops on the way. The familiar o-ran-ges "Eggs are cooked", of the natives sounds extremely amusing.

Along the road which runs by the side of the canal and railway little buildings like monuments are placed at intervals of a few miles. There seems to be wells placed there to quench the thirst of the travellers who seem to be numerous along the way.

We saw a number of native youngsters holding a net in the canal. How fish could live in such water I cannot understand. The water is so very muddy. Travelling rapidly in the train one could not see what kind of catch they were getting.


[Page 7]
As we travel further into the interior there are more trees to be seen, the familiar palm and the polleyed willow predominate. As we neared Tel-el-Kibir the land became very sandy, as if we were going into the desert. Amongst the sand we could see numerous spots of beautiful green, parts of the desert which had been re-claimed by irrigation.

There is a huge military camp at Tel-el-Kibir and the cemetery lies by the side of the railway. The memory of reading about the Battle of Tel-el-Kibir in my school books gave me an added interest in this place.

Arrived at Ismaelia at three forty five and had leave till nine o’clock.

Ismaelia is a very pretty little place. Nice shaded streets, no very large shops. A beautiful garden with a nice lake in it and a few old Egyptian Statues made a very nice place for a quiet walk.

As we walk along the banks of the Suez Canal and came to the lake which the canal runs into we saw a small British battleship which had most of its deck protected by sand bags.

Met M. who took us through No. 1 Stationary in which hospital he works.

Left Ismaelia at eleven o’clock at night. After a great deal of dilly-dallying about we reached our destination Serapeum at four o’clock in the morning.

Jan 29th. Sat.
Rose at nine this morning. Serapeum is nothing at all as a


[Page 8]
place but owing to it being placed amid weary wastes of sand it seemed to us paradise. It was only a few buildings and palm trees and had originated at the time the canal was being built. A palm tree and a building had been smashed at the time the Turks attacked on the canal early in 1915.

Jan 30th. Sun.
There are a few Wagtails, Sparrows and a small bird the size of wren but of a greyish colour. It is interesting to watch the huge beetles which crawl about on the sand. They leave their footprints behind them and are very distinct on the soft sand and can be traced all round the place. They seem to act as scavengers. When they come to a piece of manure, decayed food etc. they bury it by scraping away the sand from underneath it.

Large numbers of ants are to be seen here also. They can run over the sand at a tremendous rate.

For a considerable distance along the banks of the canal a wood of firs has been grown.

On the canal a big number of Feluccas are anchored. They contain stones to make the road which is being made away out on the Arabian desert. Egyptian Labour Corp men are being employed to make this roadway.

The canal is crossed at this part by a broad pontoon bridge. Planks of wood are strapped on to iron cylinders. This bridge is opened when ships want to pass down the canal. Staff Sgt. S. has joined us as dispenser from No. 2 A.G.H.

It was at this part that the scrap


[Page 9]
took place when the Turks crossed the desert early in 1915.

On the banks of the Canal a small wooden cross marks the spot where Major Von Hagen, the German Officer in charge of the Turks is buried. Round about this spot by the skeletons and tattered clothes of some of the Turks who where killed at that battle which took place about a year ago. They were the object of much curiosity amongst the troops.

Plenty of work unloading our gear and fixing up the hospital. The balmy air of the desert was sweetened by brass bands playing sacred music both forenoon and afternoon.

Jan 31st. Mon.
Feb 1st. Tues.
Noticed a Kingfisher flying about the water.

Feb 2nd. Wed.
Large numbers of troops have crossed over the Bridge to-day. Our trenches are said to be eleven miles out in the desert. Very cold and damp at night time here.

Feb 3rd. Thurs.
A mail containing forty one bags arrived for us to-day. Got quite a large mail out of it myself. Four letters from George, two from home, one from M, one from A, one from John and one from Mr Weir in connection with the Church at home. Also received a parcel from George. The reception of a mail obirates a multitude of inconveniences and troubles.

Parcels for the men which should have arrived before Xmas time are now just being received by the men.

If one could see the inside of our tents just now, one would think


[Page 10]
that it is Xmas time at home. Parcels, Letters, newspapers etc occupy a good part of the tents. Great excitement in camp owing to the reception of this huge mail.

The huge battleships, the "Cornwallis" and the "Jupiter" passed down the canal to-day.

Received news that W.I, is married. Uncle J. has died also learned from the letters.

Feb 4th. Frid.
E.P. tent pitching to-day.

Food is not very plentiful. Some private stores bought at Ismaelia have helped us on a bit.

Owing to the canal banks being patroled by a guard we cannot walk very far along the banks.

A large troopship passed down the canal to-night. A fine spectacle to see the faint outline of the ship and the magnificent searchlight lighting up the canal. The usual questions were shouted from the banks, "Who are you?" "Where are you going?". The answer came back "Australia" but I could not make out the name of the ship though I learned afterwards that it was the mail boat for Australia.

"Big Mac" entertained us in our tent this evening whilst stirring cocoa, boiling on a primus stove, giving his humorous experiences as a teacher in a bush school.

Feb 5th. Sat.
P. transferring to the Infantry.

C.C.S. opened. Patient go down the canal in barges to the hospital at Ismaelia.

A sand storm has got up. This makes one very uncomfortable owing to the sand getting up one’s nose


[Page 11]
in amongst one’s teeth and in one’s eyes.

Feeling in splendid form, Egypt agreeing with one very well indeed.

Troops near by all practising bomb throwing, and barbed wire entanglement fixing around the hospital.

Had something like a Xmas dinner to-day. The contents of various Xmas Parcels went to make up an ideal Xmas dinner away on the burning sands of Egypt.

A neutral ship passed down the canal as I was washing myself there. These ships have a British Armed Guard on its passage down the canal.

Feb 6th. Sun.
For the first time since we came down to this camp we got a full ration of bread.

Some more of "Big Mac’s" bush school experiences to-night again Related to us over the cocoa being boiled on the Primus in the tent. Some more contents of the Parcels made quite a nice supper.

Feb 7th. Mon.
More tent pitching.

Took a walk through the Infantry camps this evening. The usual hum of voices came from the faintly lighted tents. Armed guards were stationed at various points and coloured lamps marked the place where the various official quarters were.

Looking inside the tents most of them contained men seated round a lighted candle on a box playing cards or gambling in some form or other. The jingle of money could


[Page 12]
be heard as each game was completed.

In one or two of the tents the occupants had got the possession of gramophones and the sound of music from them was very pleasant to hear. Such popular sentimental songs as "The Little Grey Home in the West", Rosary, etc were the favourites.

The inevitable canteen was there and crowds of soldiers were standing around the counter hustling one another to get served, with the tinned fruit, cigarettes, tobacco, etc. Things which are always in great demand where troops are.

When we returned to our own camp again some of our next tent neighbours were having a sing-song on their own. When we came forward they were singing "Nuchejan" but they ceased on one appearance and then sang "Aroaming in the Gloaming" much to their own and our amusement.

A few of the infantry were standing on an Egyptian barge trying to buy something from a couple of natives. Evidently something had been unsatisfactory between the native and one of the soldiers. The Egyptian lifted a huge cudgel and endeavoured to strike the soldier but before he had time to think the native was unceremoniously push over the side of the barge into the canal. Then there was a splutter for a few minutes but things passed off quietly afterwards.

To a certain extent we are playing at soldiers now. The bugler sounds all the calls during the day. When there is


[Page 13]
actual work to be done such as we had on Gallipoli such tin pot tricks are never thought off mere ceremony goes to the wall and actual serious work is done.

Feb 9th. Wed.
Sand storm to-day again.

Feb 10th. Thurs.
Weather very good to-day.

Building an incinerator. Some of the "big nuts with plenty of Red Tape" about them inspected our camp to-day.

Compulsory swimming parade to-day.

Feb 11th. Frid.
Heard the sound of heavy guns firing to-day. In all probability they are the warships having gun practice down on the lake at Ismaelia.

The rumour is that there is a scrap on with the Turks as D.W. the bugler got orders not to blow his bugler to-night.

An aeroplane was seen over head to-day.

The people on board the ships that passed down the canal throw tobacco and cigarettes to the men on the banks.

Feb 12th. Sat.
Football match, Australian Rules Officers, Non Com O, against Privates. Privates won 25-16.

Read "Scottish Regiments at the Front". Short accounts of the origins of the various Scottish Regiments.

Feb 13th. Sun.
Church Parade at Headquarters. You never saw such a conglomeration of uniform for a unit. Everyone seemed to be dressed differently, this was, as we were where we came


[Page 14]
off Anzac. Apparently our O.C. and Adjutant were ashamed of us. They seemed to be fully dressed themselves to go to church but they handed over the parade to one of inferior rank and went back to their tent.

Capt Dexter gave the address.

Two troopships crowded with troops passed up the Canal this afternoon. One of them was the "Kyarra" the ship that I came over from Aust – with. Not being a Hospital ship this time she was painted black and she had still the same old list to one side.

The "Corsican" passed down the Canal loaded with "Tommies". They are on their way to Bombay.

More Light Engines and waggons have been put on the light railway which goes away out into the desert to the trenches.

The rumour goes at present that two million pounds are to be spent on the Sinai side of the canal in fortifications.

Stretcher bearer to the canal, patients evacuated in barges to the hospital at Ismaelia.

Feb 14th. Mon.
Very showery weather. Food is pretty good at present. A regular supply is being brought up in the ration boat on the canal.

More troopships passed up to-day.

Met R.P. & H who came down from Tel-el-Kibir with No 1 F. Amb.

Full dress parade. Letters read from the "K nuts with Red Tape" regarding discipline amongst the troops or rather the lack of discipline. They might as well read them to the moon for all the difference they will make


[Page 15]
amongst the men. The letters were to the effect that the Aust – soldier had proved himself second to none as fighters but as soldiers, discipline was very poor.

To my mind it is fighters who are needed at present and not "Toy soldiers".

From the tone of our O.C. address everything points to us going away from here very shortly.

Large numbers of camels are used here for transport of water stores, etc across the sandy desert for the troops.

Mules and Mule Carts are in use also by the Egyptians. These carts have very large wheels.

Feb 17th. Thurs.
Building a sandbag wall around our kitchen.

Beautifully moonlight at nightime at present.

Feb 18th. Fri.
Read the "Sentimental Bloke" by Dennis, and Aust – poet. A very entertaining book.

Feb 20th. Sun.
Mumps has broken out amongst the men.

Camp inspected by Generals Murray and Ford and about a dozen other hangers-on.

Two meningitis suspects to-day.

Feb 21st.

An in rush of patients, all sick.

A mess tent has been fixed up for us, and the usual gamblers congregate here at night-time. Gambling with them seems to have an intense fascination for some men. One thing about them they seem to take their loss and gains in a sportmanlike fashion.


[Page 16]
At heavy losses these men make resolutions that they will not gamble any more, but once they get some money into their hand again they are very soon at it again.

Feb 26th Sat.
Working on Ward duty.

After lights-out at ten o’clock to-night there were faint sounds of men talking. Apparently it was the finale of conversation before the occupants fell asleep. The Orderly Officer had ordered the men to stop talking. This nettled the men a bit and out of mischief they continued talking in the same subdued tone. It was the O.O.’s turn to be nettled and going in search of the Orderly Sergeant gave him orders to go round the camp and tell the men that reveille would be sounded at six o’clock instead of seven to-morrow morning. This news was greeted by all with burst of laughter and ridicule. Next the order was sent round that there would no football match to-morrow if the "noise" did not cease. These things were looked upon by the men to be so pettish that it only made them laugh and ridicule more. Some of the more unruly counted the officer out.

Feb 27th. Sun.
A special parade called at ten o’clock this morning. Four tents were said to be responsible for the so-called disturbance last night. Everyman who occupied these tents was paraded before the O.C. with grave ceremony. Each one was asked individually if "he began the counting out".


[Page 17]
Of course naturally the answer was "No" in each case.

The senior men of each tent was asked to fall out and then were marched off under guard, they having been put under close arrest.

Another full parade at one thirty pm. The O.C. addressed the parade and in a few words told the parade that unless the man who began the counting should step out within half an hour, the men who were present under arrest would be transferred to the detention camp.

Later in the day as no one came forward these men were marched to the detention camp, which was situated about a mile from here, and consisted of a barbed wire enclosure, a few tents, and an Armed guard.

A rumour had got amongst the men that the Officers were going to make a raid on the "Banking School" in the Mess Tent this evening.

So instead of carrying on the "school", as a means of diversion, they had a sing-song and being Sunday night hymns were sung. This was being enjoyed by the men when word was brought into the tent that the patients who were in hospital could not sleep, to my mind there was no noise and the complaint was paltry. It afterwards was proved that the patients had not complained at all. So, one wonders what the poor troops have got to do.

Mon Feb 28th.

The four seniors of the "Rowdy" tents were up before the O.C.

So far only one has been judged and he was proved not guilty. The trial still


[Page 18]
continues.

Feb 29th. Tues.
Special parade this afternoon when we were marched off to have a fresh water bath. This is the most sensible thing that has been done in our unit for some time, although we were all very much amused at it.

Under the supervision of an Officer we were each allowed to draw a basin of water, about a couple of pints. In this we had to wash ourselves. Then after having a bath we were allowed to draw another basin of water to wash one shirt. This was’nt much to look at but it was indeed a real pleasure to us all.

The other three senior men who were put under arrest have been acquitted. As they returned back to camp they were greeted with great cheers by the men.

March 1st Wednesday.

The occupants of our tent were paraded to-day before the O.C. and were asked a few questions regarding the counting out of the Officer, Major Jolly.

The questions put to us were :-

No 1 "Did you hear any talking after Lights Out"

No 2 "Were there any talking in your tent after Lights Out?"

No 3. "Did you hear Sgt Guest say that parade the next day would be at 6 o’clock instead of 6.45?"

No 4. "Did you hear any counting Out?"

No 5. Did you hear anyone say "Now all to-gether boys"?

No 6 "Did anyone do any counting Out in your tent?"


[Page 19]
The "Franconian" sailed past this morning loaded with Scottish Troops.

The climax came this evening. One of our Sgt’s came into the Mess Tent and calling out a few names of which I happened to be one of them. We were told to be on the parade ground in ten minutes time. We could not understand what new move was on. We appeared on parade as ordered.

A number of other names were then called out and they were told that they were under arrest. We were told to put on our belts and were put on guard over the men under arrest.

This trial business seems to be becoming more funny every day.

Men from other units are beginning to learn about it and there is quite a big commotion being caused.

March 2nd. Thurs.
Quite a big rush of sick patients came into hospital to-day. They seem to be more serious than usual.

The chaps who were put under arrest yesterday were tried to-day. Nearly every one of them got 21 days second field punishment.

A severe sand storm to-day.

March 3rd. Fri.
Owing to about fifteen men being in jail the working of hospital is much heavier on the remaining staff.

The sand storm still continues.

March 4th Sat. 5th Sun.
One of Cook’s Tourist boats is now being used to transfer the patients


[Page 20]
down the Canal.

The majority of cases passing through the C.C.S. are veneral cases.

Some of our unit are getting a few days leave in Cairo.

March 6th. Mon
Warrant out for P’s arrest. He took French leave from hospital at Ismaelia.

Scottish troops passed down the Canal to-day on there way to the Persian Gulf.

March 7th. Tues.
P, returns back to unit, gives us amusing experiences of his disappearance.

Kept very busy owing to being short of staff. Everything topsy turvy.

March 8th Wed.
Major Jollie is treating the patients as if they were in a General Hospital instead of a C.C.S. which with the lack of conveniences makes the work much heavier on the depleted staff.

Very heavy mist this morning, the sun ultimately broke through and it became an extremely hot day.

The Officers put their gramophone on parade ground this evening and we were entertained to delightful music, mostly Scotch airs.

March 9th Thurs.
A number of No 1 Stationary Hospital nurses visited the C.C.S. to-day.

Bands playing at H.Q.

March 12th. Sun.
Rumours that we are going to Bombay.

Rumours that the German Fleet has come out into the open in the North Sea.

The weather these last few days


[Page 21]
has been beautiful and the night are beautifully moonlight.

Reinforced by men who had left the unit sick and who had returned from hospital in England. Issued with new equipment something like the infantry. The canal is being taken great advantage off by the troops for swimming in.

Hundred above hundreds of heads are bobbing up out of the water and make a most amusing sight indeed.

Some of the swimmer climb on to the Egyptian barges as they sail slowly down the canal and from them they give exhibitions of diving.

A great many sit or ly on the banks of the canal and woe betide the native who passes along on the bank. He does not go many steps before he finds himself push into the water. This affords great amusement to the troops, but what about the poor Egyptian?

March 15th. Wed.
Left Serapeum on the hospital barge to sail up the canal to Ismaelia on our way to Cairo to spend two days leave there. D.I. and myself went on leave to-gether. As we sailed up the Canal I took a few photos of interest.

At one part of the Canal an inlet had been made and at this part the Light Horse who were encamped near by watered their horses. They rode into the water on the horses backs and wading about almost over the horses head they formed quite a pretty spectacle. At the station of Tussom there was


[Page 22]
an Australian Guard placed. Amongst these troops there must have been some one with an artistic temperament. On the slope of the bank of the canal they had sketched by means of small white stone, huge diagrams, one depicting the map of Australia marked of into the states and encircling the map were the words, "A part of a Great Empire". Another was a sketch of a British Cruiser, and the other was the engraving which is to be found on the Australian shilling, the Kangaroo and the Emu with the words "Advance Australia".

Large numbers of Egyptian barges loading up the white stone which is being used to make the roads across the desert. This stone is being brought down on Light Railways probably from the Mokattam Hills.

There was much amusement caused by one of the small trucks running away and upsetting as it collided with some trucks standing stationary on the line.

The canal widens considerably as we approch the Lake of Timnah. On the banks of the Lake there is a great deal of sparse scrub and large numbers of wild duck are to be seen flying about.

As we entered the wide expanse of water which is called the lake we could see a number of battle ships, one was anchored right in the centre of the canal, apparently a French Destroyer called the "Requin". High up in the air, above the other side of the lake, was a huge observation balloon which was brought down soon after we reached Ismaelia.

Ismaelia is a fair sized place and a number of pretty villas,


[Page 23]
with nice gardens attached, are built there.

We visited No 2 Stationary, unfortunately the time was inopportune and we did not see in.

We left Ismaelia for Cairo at two o’clock. On our way to Cairo we passed through some beautiful country.

Met W. & B. Their leave had expired but they did not intend to go back to the C.C.S. till the next day. This is the sort of thing that spoils others from getting their leave.

They advised us to stay at the New Khedival Hotel and on making investigations at that place we were quite pleased with the place and we decided to stay there during our leave. It cost us five shilling for bed and breakfast.

I had a few purchases to make for some of the chaps in the unit who are not eligible for leave and after having made these purchases I was free to wander about as I thought fit.

In the evening we took a walk through the Esbekiah Gardens which are situated in the centre of the town.

There was a Restaurant and Recreation Rooms run by the Y.M. and V.A.D.’s and a Skating Rink also was there for the use of troops. These places were simply crowded with troops.

It was here that I met the first Stirling chap I knew, since I joined the Army. He was Bobby Dick who had left Stirling a year previous to me leaving. Went to Groppi’s and had tea to-gether.

March 16th. Thurs.
Went down the "Mousky" to the bazaars. We amused ourselves by


[Page 24]
going into a few of the shops and pricing the articles which were for sale. Some of the prices were excessive of course this was to be looked for, we, being dressed in Australian uniform. However we were not so green as we probably looked.

We dropped into an out of the way shop which I had been in when I was in Cairo before. We were fortunate in making a purchase of a few brass curios with Egyptian illustrations and inscriptions on them. Amongst the things that I bought, was a beautiful Coffee set which to my mind was worth five times as much as I paid for it.

We spent a very pleasant forenoon in the "Mousky".

In the afternoon we went out to the camp at Heliopolis and spent the afternoon with B.D.

In the evening we went to an entertainment at the Kursaal. The audience at the Kursaal consisted mainly of soldiers and the entertainment was very good.

After much difficulty and taxing of our ingenuity we managed to get our curios packed up to send home.

March 17th. Fri.
Took our curios to Cook’s to send them home. This office had a very slow way of doing business and the greater part of the forenoon was lost in getting served.

After dinner in Esbekiah Gardens we went out to our old home, Ghezirah Palace. We found that the hospital had closed down and the unit were engaged packing up for transport to France. Had a talk with many of the old boys. Learned that


[Page 25]
a large number of the original unit had been transferred to Field Amb, etc. Our leave being almost ended we left Cairo Station at six fifteen this evening.

The scene as we travelled through this eastern country in cool, calm evening is one that I am not likely to forget. The balmy air, the descending sun, and the outline of the palm trees, the camels with their riders perched on their backs, the donkeys with their masters who were dressed in light flowing robes was fascinating indeed I had a feeling of sadness, at the thought that I was leaving it all probably never to see it again, the "Fascinating East."

We reached Ismaelia about midnight and following the track of the railway we made our way over the desert to the Canal. A pretty stiff walk it was especially at those parts where we left the railway and walked across the sand.

When we got to the canal we found the bridge closed. Luckily a boat was crossing from our side and we got in to it.

As we got midway on the canal a couple of natives rowing a boat as if they were trying a race almost collided with ours. The language of the men in our boat was anything but complimentary and oath after oath was showered upon the heads of these natives as they rapidly made their escape. I thought when I saw the boat coming towards us that it was all up with us.

We reached camp at midnight very tired but highly pleased with our trip to Cairo.


[Page 26]
March 19th. Sun.
Closed down "C" ward this afternoon.

March 20th. Mon.
On G.D. carrying stones to make a road down the steep incline of the banks of the canal, so as to make the transport of patients to the hospital boat easier.

March 21st. Tues.
Kit inspection to-day.

March 22nd. Wed.
An R.A.M.C. Unit has arrived here to take over our hospital from us.

March 23rd. Thurs.
Loading stores on to the trucks at Serepeum Siding. Exceptionally hot to-day. Had a bathe in the canal.

A Dutch Steamer, a French Transport with Black troops aboard and a British oil boat which is of a peculiar shape passed down the canal, the time that I was in bathing.

Read "Rhona Keith" by Annie Swan.

March 24th. Fri.
A sure sign that we are on the move again, Biscuits in place of Bread issued.

March 25th. Sat.
Swimming Carnival held by No 1 A.C.C.S. and No 11 C.C.S.

A very good afternoons sport.

March 26th. Sun.
On Guard over our stores at the Railway siding.

The flies are very troublesome at present.

March 28th. Tues.
Ordered to have full packs on at two o’clock this afternoon. Twenty four hours iron rations issued.

Marched over to the siding at Serapeum earlier than others in order.


[Page 27]
to load up waggons with stores.

At nine o’clock in the evening we finished the loading up of the remaining trucks.

We were then divided up into numbers of fifteen to a truck. In these trucks we were to travel all night to reach Alexandria.

The night was bitterly cold inspite of the fact that daytime had been extremely hot. The trucks were open and between the cold air, the jerking of the waggon and the clink, clank, of the chains these were not conducive "to much" sleep.

At various stops we make heard the cry of natives, shouting "Oranges", "Eggs are Cooked" "Chocolate" aroused the appetite of some of the troops and there was a good deal of hurtling to get their purchase before the train moved off again.

This being in the middle of the night one began to wonder if the natives ever sleep.

March 29th. Wed.
Our train steamed right on to the Wharf at Alexandria.

Money changers were busy exchanging the troops money into English money. These money changers must have made a good thing out of it, as they got two and a half piastres on every £ exchanged.

We disentrained and embarked on to the Corsican.

Lying by the side of the "Corsican" was the larger ship "Transylvania" which was also being loaded up with troops. We were fortunate in getting cabins to sleep in. One advantage of being in the A.M.C. this time.

Each man is issued with a Life Belt. This he must wear continually.


[Page 28]
March 30th. Thurs.
Life Belt parade at 10 o’clock.

Sailed out of the harbour at Alex. at the same hour.

Machine Guns with their crew are placed at various places on the deck, and a large gun is also placed at the stern of the ship. These are placed there in case of an attack by submarines.

There are 2,500 troops aboard the "Corsican".

Away on the horizon we could see the outline of battleships. Probably an escort.

The "Transylvania" which left later than us came steaming up behind our ship this evening. It is a much faster boat than ours.

Inoculated this afternoon.

Portholes of the ship are closed and darkened at five o’clock every evening.

The troops on board consist of the 11th and 12th Batts A.I.F. Some R.F.A., R.H.A., Machine Gunners & A.M.C.

Read a book entitled "Egypt" in the "Peeps at Many Lands" it is a splendid books and describes the land we have just left, very well indeed.

Given a copy of "Birdwoods" addresses the troops before their arrival in France. The gist of the matter in the address was a request to act in a chivalrous spirit towards the people of France especially the women folks.

Food on board is very good.

Wearing life belts all day long is not conducive to comfort, especially when one has an arm which has just been inoculated.

There is a fairly rough sea on to-day but it is not much effect on this ship, which seems to glide so.


[Page 29]
easily through the water.

While standing on the deck awaiting the daily inspection a destroyer came up to us cutting the water beautifully and the way in which she turned completely round in the rough sea and the water dashing over the forepart of the ship completely obscuring it was pretty to see.

It is wonderful how rapidly these destroyers can cut through the water and also how they turn in their own length.

This destroyer accompanied us for a considerable distance. After making a signal to our ship it sailed away over the horizon, out of sights.

There is a marked difference in the appearance of the troops since they come aboard. They have had time to shave and to look after their appearance the result is they are very much smarter and happier looking than when they come aboard.

Passed the spot to-day where the "Miniapolis" is said to have been sunk by a submarine.

April 1st. Sat.
On F. scrubbing out cabins.

Large numbers of different kinds of birds are flying about the ship, some of which are settling on the rigging. The seeing of these birds gives one the impression that land must be near although it is not in sight

Put on duty looking after an officer who has contracted pneumonia.

A beautiful day. Ship sailing beautifully.

April 2nd. Sunday.

Divine Service.

Anchored in the Valetta Harbour Malta this afternoon. Not going ashore


[Page 30]
here. We only anchored for half an hour. The Signal ship of this port is "Gleneagles".

At times one thought the signal ship was going to topple over owing to the heavy swell of the sea here.

A few minesweepers passed us in front of the harbour.

Being in the danger zone the bugler does not sound the reveillie. Instead the orderly sergeant of each unit goes round and wakes the men out of hammocks. A very inenviable job indeed, as you can well imagine.

There are so many troops aboard to be fed that the getting of meals is "some" job owing to the congested part of the ship where the kitchen is.

A contrast to the beautifully laid out dinning saloons of the officers who have everything that they desire, and the most of them are better off now than ever they have been in all their lives or ever will be when the war is over.

Beautiful snow white table covers laid with beautifully polished cutlery, and sparkling glassware and china. With soft cushioned chairs to sit on and rich carpeting on the floor. Smartly dressed in stiff white shirt and blue Eton shaped clothes, the stewards dart backwards and forward serving these officers with their every whim and fancy.

Why such contrasts between the men and the officers are allowed I do not know. It is not because they have more intelligence, of that I am certain, for ability is rather looked on with jealousy and is not recognised as a valuable or necessary commodity for an officer.

From what I have seen in the Army


[Page 31]
To show ability to a person has got the power over one by mere length of service is to arouse jealousy in that individual who will immediately have a set against you and thwart you at every turn. Length of service gives a person an authority over "inferior ranks" which he can use at his own caprice for good or ill. Hence the great part influence has in raising and lowering men in the army, in spite of ability.

However, if one gets to the root of the matter the probability is that the men enjoy their food better than the officer in spite of all the inconveniences.

The steward type of man does not appeal to me at all. He seems to be always on the make and when I meet them they always give me the feeling of insincerity.

April 3rd. Mon.
The ship is taking a zig-zag course at present. The probability is we are in the vicinity of submarines.

April 4th. Tues.
The burning question aboard is "When will the ship reach port?"

Rather chilly this morning.

Have a swollen face owing to a decayed tooth, luckily it is not painful.

April 5th. Wed.
Reached Marseillaise at 6 oclock this morning.

It seems a very big city. A large number of ships are lying in the harbour.

When we reached the wharf we lay alongside the "Bramar Castle" which brought No 2 A.G.H. over.

Usually, at these times, rumours


[Page 32]
go about of miraculous escapes and this voyage has been no exception. True or untrue we have had a miraculous escape. Six ships are said to have been sunk the time we were coming through the Mediterreanean Sea.

Hanging about ship all day long.

About four o’clock in the afternoon we disembarked. We had to march through streets of the city to the station.

The city seemed pretty much like all European cities. High buildings, wide and narrow streets and crowds of children playing about. The people walking up and down the streets seemed as if they had just knocked off work for the day.

Passed a Triumphal Arch built in commemoration of the instituting the French Republic.

We passed a few companies of German prisoners. There would be four or five hundred of them under armed escort, apparently they had been out working and were being taken back to their detention camp.

Went to a High Class Restaurant? Had a cup of tea, a piece of bread and butter for which we were charged 1/8d.

As we were seated there a Military Police Officer came into the Restaurant and spoke to us in a very friendly fashion, warning us to behave ourselves. It appears that the previous night some Aussies had caused a disturbance and this sort of thing had been creating a bad impression on the people of the city.

It is only this last week or two


[Page 33]
that Australian troops have been landed in France.

Some chaps will alway get their own back if they think that they have been cheated in any way. After we left this High Class Restaurant one of our number showed me a nice fork which he had picked up of the table in order as he said to get a bit of his own back for the high price he had paid.

Left station at Marseilles at eleven thirty at night. It was raining heavily. After a bit of hustling we got settled in carriages, eight to a carriage, and in this position we were to remain on our way right to the "North of France".

It was not very comfortable this position, either for sleeping or sitting to long. However, nature asserted herself and we gradually went to sleep.

April 6th. Thurs.
When I awoke this morning it was about five o’clock.

At that time we were passing through beautiful fruit growing country. This being springtime the Fruit trees were clustered with beautiful pink blossom. The previous nights rain had freshened everything up, making the grass of the fields lovely and green. Situated amongst these fields and fruit trees, the pretty little Red tiled cottages of the inhabitants made a very peaceful picture.

All day long we passed through country such as I have described. This being a slow passenger train we stop at every station. This gives us a good view of the country. But for the difference in language


[Page 34]
one would think themselves travelling at home, so much alike are the people and their manners like those at home.

There were a large number of women wearing mourning, amongst those who were waiting at the various stations.

The Lombardy Poplar seems to be a favourite tree of these parts.

Passed along the side of the River Rhone.

There is a high range of hills as we reach Challons. Principly vines are grown on these hills. It was wonderful to see villages built on these hills and the manner in which the vines are growing on the steep sides of the hills was amazing to see.

Since passing through France my opinion has been greatly altered regarding the French people. At home one was always lead to believe the French were a fast living lot of people. They may be so in the cities but the country people give me a different impression.

The young girls of the south are very pretty. Their faces were coloured like a delicate pink blossom of the fruit trees that we had seen so many off on our way up from Marseilles. They treated us with the greatest courtesy and put bashful? young men like my self at their ease in a few minutes.

They are very anxious to get the hold of the numerals and badges belonging to the troops, as souvenirs. A good number of the men parted with theirs to the owners of the pretty face and nice manners.


[Page 35]
At a number of the stations we were provided with a cup of tea and cake by the French Red Cross.

This was very much appreciated. I counted six bridges crossing the River Rhone at Lyons. Lyons seems a large city indeed.

Touching scenes are witnessed at a few of the stations on our way up. French soldiers, leaving their wives and families, en route for the trenches. The people on the whole had a bright expression on their faces but one could not help thinking that underlying it all there was a feeling of sadness. Probably their kindly feeling shown towards us was the outcome of what they had suffered in the loss of their own friends and relations.

It is awful to think what terrible devastation and suffering would have been caused had the Germans got into this beautiful part of the country which we had just passed through. Yet such has already been done in Belgium and in some parts of France already.

At one station we past there was a group of German prisoners. They were mostly young men and looked well in health. I noticed a sarcastic grin pass across a few of their faces when we travelled past them in the train, but most of them had a stolid far away look on their faces.

It is pleasant to hear the people of these parts speaking amongst themselves. They have a nice, musical accents.

Much amusement was caused at one of the stations by the men throwing some coppers amongst a group of children, causing them to scramble in all directions, hustling and pushing one another in their excitement to get at the


[Page 36]
pennies. In Egypt the children ask for Backshish, in the France the children ask for a souvenir.

We often see French soldiers, in their quaint blue uniform as we travel through the country.

April 7th. Friday

Noticed primroses growing on the banks of the railroad.

Slightly wet this morning. Passing through splendid grain-growing country. Travelled through the famous Forest of Fountainebleau to-day. Fountainebleau station is very pretty.

Reached the station at Velleux St Georges at twelve o’clock to-day. We had been travelling continuously for fifty two hours. At this station we had to wait for six hours to change our train.

We left this station at four o’clock and had a splendid reception from the people all along the line.

( The) An English nurse maid, apparently from the large house near by, who was standing at one of the stations which we stopped threw a number of magazines amongst the troops, who like the children with the pennies hustled and pushed one another to get them.

We were disappointed because the authorities thought it best to avoid Paris, a city, at one part of the journey we were quite near to.

A French munition worker travelled in the same carriage as us and although he could not speak a word of English, by means of a French Dictionary we managed to instruct one another in a few words of our languages.

We had to change trains twice during the night time. The night was bitterly cold, but by the kindness of the Red Cross


[Page 37]
ladies, we were provided at these stops with hot coffee, and this was a perfect God send to us.

April 8th. Saturday

We are now passing through country which is taken up by industry, judging by the fact that so many factories are about.

We arrived at Rouen about seven oclock.

A large number of Scottish troops were waiting at the siding, waiting for the train which is to take them up to the trenches.

After disentraining we were driven in motors to No 6 General Hospital (R.A.M.C.) which is situated amongst many other hospitals a few miles outside of Rouen.

In the afternoon we went back to the railway siding to unload our stores.

April 9th. Sun.
Put on Ward duty in No 4 ward. Acute Medical Ward.

Do not care for it much. Working with Sisters does not agree with me at all.

April 10th. Mon.
Had leave and went in to Rouen in the afternoon. Climbed to the top of the high tower made of iron in Rouen Cathedral. This tower is four hundred and fifty feet high and has eight hundred and twelve steps. From this tower one gets a magnificent view of the city and the surrounding country. There was a terrific wind blowing at the time I was climbing the spiral staircase, which made the climbing very difficult. The Cathedral is magnificent inside and has beautiful stained glass windows.


[Page 38]
Candles were lit which lighted up the sombre appearance of the cathedral and people, mostly women, were praying at the various shrines in various recesses of the huge edifice.

Wandered around the town. It is an antiquated old town, narrow streets and quaint old fashioned buildings which gave one a feeling of peacefulness.

Returned back to hospital in the evening. Happening to drop into the Y.M.C.A. Hut near by I found the Rev Mr Purvis of Allan Park Church, Stirling, in charge. We had a long talk to-gether and he invited us to tea. This YM Hut, in the evening, is always crowded with troops and Mr Purvis seems to have a happy nack of keeping the men in good humour and producing entertainment out of them in the form of sing-songs, etc.

One has now got to learn another language to find their way about and to get what they want. The experiences are amusing and varied in this respect and actions tell better than words.

D and I went into a nice tea shop. We sat down at a table with another chap who was not one of our party. The pretty little French waitress took our order. Tea and cake for us, ice cream for the other fellow, but instead she brought three teas. The chap who ordered ice cream tried to explain that he did not want tea. Madmoselle failing to understand took all the three teas away and brought three ices in place of them. It was our turn to try and explain that we did not want ices but all to no avail, she failed to understand again, so the only way out of the difficulty was for us to take the ices, then order tea, which we did. The other chap asked for his bill.


[Page 39]
The waitress combined the three of us together and handed the whole bill to him. Things were becoming more funny than ever. He ordered another ice and dividing the whole bill into three we each paid our share.

Working in ward with a chap from the North of England, very decent, happy-go-lucky sort of chap he is.

April 12th. Wed.
Things are carried on very systematically in this hospital, but I cannot bear the English nurses bossing around. Went to a lecture on "certain aspects of the war" in the Y.M. Hut.

April 13th. Thurs.
Wards inspected by some "K-nut" with plenty of "Red Tape" about him. The men of our unit re-count their experiences in some of the questionable places in Rouen. Some of them make a practice of remaining out at night and coming home drunk. "Of course, these are men?" I.D.T.

April 14th. Fri.
A most enjoyable cup of tea is provided in the Y.M. Hut. Instead of paying for things over the counter, they have a system of paying by means of tickets. One buys the ticket at a paybox and hand the ticket on purchase of goods. This is a great saving of time and helps to deal with a large number of men who are making small purchases and as a result require change very frequently. The ticket are valued for a penny, twopence, and threepence.

April 15th. Sat.
Like all R.A.M.C. unit food is not very abundant in the Mess Rooms.

April 17th. Sun.
In the Evening went for a walk through the large forest near by


[Page 40]
along with G. and a few others. A shower of drizzling rain fell as we walked through the forest and out into the open fields which were all beautiful and green and fresh.

The birds singing in the trees, the cattle peacefully grazing in the fields, the few pretty little chateaux which and the church bells ringing calling the people to church all went to make one content with themselves and produced a feeling of quietness and calm, even although in this same land war with all its bitterness suffering and sorrow is being carried on.

We reached the village of St Etienne. My companions said that I probably was the first person in Australian uniform to be in that village. Be that as it may, the eyes of the villagers were very often turned in my direction.

We retraced our step and after losing our way amongst the fields and the woods we ultimately struck the right road and reached back to camp about eight oclock.

Making our way to the Y.M. Hut for a cup of tea, the value of these huts is more and more being brought home to me in seeing the large crowds of young men who are taking advantage of their benefits. There was a line, four deep extending right round the hall and reaching to the door, probably three hundred, men waiting their turn to be served. They all waited quietly, no hustling to be seen amongst them. They seem all to have the feeling that with both patience and perseverance, they will get served in the sweet bye and bye.

Went back to my sleeping quarters There we found some of the "boys" singing very objectionable words to the tune of a favourite song.


[Page 41]
April 17th. Mon.
Had leave of duty during the afternoon. Went into the city of Rouen. Taking the tram to Bonsecours we climbed up a sheer precipice in spiral fashion till we reached near a big monument in memory of Joan of Arc. There is a nice old church built there also

One got a magnificent view of the surrounding country as we mounted up the steep incline and from the summit of the hill. The view of the River Sienne, the small islands in the river, the number of bridges which cross the Seine at this part, and the magnificent Cathedral looked splendid indeed. The large number of tall Chimneys gave one the impression that this is an industrial city.

Returning from Bonsecours, I visited the market place in the centre of the city. On a marble slab there is a diagram of the city in the time of Joan of Arc. Another slab fixed into the pavement marks the spot where Joan of Arc was burned.

Wandered about the city for an hour or two enjoying the antiquity of the place, narrow streets, ancient buildings and statues make some parts quaint and interesting. I saw the famous old clock of Rouen.

Joan of Arc is the great favourite in this place. Momentoes of her are to be seen in all the shops, most of them are in the form of little statuettes.

Went back to camp, found when I got there that, a number had been indulging in liquor and were singing songs boisterously.

April 18th. Tues.
Went out with .G. and a few others


[Page 42]
for a stroll. Went again through the woods to St Etienne. After having a cup of coffee, we went out of bounds, into the city. Feeling that we had to go very warily on this account not having a pass, we avoided the M.P.s as much as possible.

After having a look round we boarded a tram to get back to camp but it was so overcrowded that we decided to get off again.

We tried to hire a taxi. This was a fruitless search. Luckily an officer seeing our difficulty offered to give us a lift in his taxi which we readily accepted. We drove rapidly back to camp and arrived there a few minutes before "Lights Out".

April 20th. Thurs.
Wrote a few letters in the Y.M. Hut. Went to the Hospital Concert this evening. Very slow and did not wait long.

April 22nd. Sat.
Very wet weather these last few days. C, D and myself were entertained to tea by Mr Purvis. Had a very interesting talk with him.

Went to a Lecture later.

In the concert hall things were very amusing. A prize of a few cigarettes were given to the men who would sing a song first. No one seemed to take the bait until after a good deal of hesitation a youngster plucked up courage, mounted the platform and broke down in the middle of the song. This caused a great deal of amusement, especially so when Mr Purvis presented him with a box of cigarettes. This set the ball arolling and quite a number sang songs without the motive power of prize winning and quite a pleasant evening


[Page 43]
was spent in a free and easy fashion.

Our advance party left here to-day for our destination, a village called Estaires about three miles behind the firing line. They travelled up by motor transport.

April 23rd. Sun. April 24th. Mon.
In Ward 13 Surgical.

Off duty this afternoon. Although there was a rumour that we are leaving for up the "Line" to-day I managed to get a pass in to town.

This being Easter Monday there was a holiday in town. The people were going about in Sunday attire, Blacks being predominant. Intended going up to Bonsecours again, but the trams were so overcrowded, that I changed my mind and wandered around the streets.

Saw a splendid monument but for what it had been put up for I cannot say, as there were no inscription on it.

On the left hand side of this monument was a fine statue of a horse and a youth, the right hand side had a fine representation of a cow while in the centre was a women and young boy in a boat.

Went to the fine old museum, which was very interesting indeed, the anatomical studies being specially instructive.

The building, to look at from the outside, was not impressive, but the inside of it was splendid.

Went into the Cathedral and had a good look round this magnificent old place. As usual, candles were lit and people, mostly women were at their devotion, at the numerous shrines which are to be found in these places.

Had a trip across the River Seine on the, what was to me a novelty, namely


[Page 44]
a transporter bridge. This is a high iron framwork something of the shape of the Tower Bridge, London. Steel ropes hang from a trolley which runs high overhead. The car or bridge is attached to these steel ropes and runs very smoothly over to the other side of the river.

Large crowds of men and women were seated outside a large café, drinking their wine, coffee etc and smoking around small tables. The evening was beautiful, the gaily dressed women, smartly attired men seated outside the café looked charming indeed.

A big stout British Officer was amongst them. He had a bull dog which matched well with the appearance of himself. This Bull Dog took a dislike to another dog which was standing quietly near another table, so much so that it made an attack on it, jumping ferociously on to a table in his anxiety to reach the other dog. This would have been all right if there had been nothing standing on the table, but it so happened that glasses with liquor, etc were on the table and between the clash of breaking glasses, the scattering of the people near this particular table, the tittering of the amused onlookers and the big burly officer trying to stop the dogs fighting the whole thing was exceedingly funny and exciting

A Zepillen alarm was sounded. All lights were immediately extinguished and we were all ordered to fall in on parade. The hospital was in total darkness. We were all posted to various places with stretchers in case of emergency

One of our number, who was intoxicated at the time refused to put a light out, and was put under arrest.

April 25th. Tues.

[Page 45]
Anzac Day. Beautiful weather.

Orders to move off to-morrow.

A great deal of drinking going on amongst our unit. To get drunk is the hall mark of being manly I.D.T.

April 26th. Wed.
Loading up our stores on to Motor Waggons for transport up to our destination near the firing line. We all left the Hospital at 3 o’clock in route for the station riding in motor buses.

The parade before leaving the hospital was one of the funniest parades that I had ever witnessed or been on. A number of the troops had got drunk and they wanted to do everything that the officer did not want them to do. One of the drunks had a small bell which he held behind his back and everytime an order was given he rung this bell and this upset the gravity of the men on parade extremely After several attempt to find the misdemeanour which caused subdued merriment amongst the parade, the officer gave up the attempt and we all moved off.

After being inspected by the D.D.M.S. we entrained leaving the Station at Rouen about five o’clock. The carriages were dirty and most uncomfortable to ride in. There were no cushions on the seat and only one window which was in the door. In spite of being crushed like sardines in a tin I was able to get a good nights sleep by getting into all kinds of contortionists shapes.

April 27th. Thurs.
When I awoke about six o’clock this morning I found that we were passing through some beautiful


[Page 46]
country. As we travelled rapidly over the country we passed numerous villages. Conspicuous in these villages was factory chimneys and churches with their spires pointing skywards.

Pretty little Farm steadings are to be seen scattered amongst this beautiful agricultural country. In the fresh green fields fine cattle are grazing. Tall trees are here in abundance. The buds on the hedges have just begun to burst and everything in the country is inspiriting.

The daisies and buttercups are growing prolific in the fields, the birds are singing in the trees making to us all Merry Merry Springtime.

One could see that large numbers of troops had passed up this way. Thousands above Thousands of empty food tins of all descriptions tinned meat, fruit, milk, etc lined the railway for the greater part of the journey.

We reached Bethune this morning at ten o’clock. Was put on Guard to look after the stores at the station. The remainder of the unit went on to another train.

Spent the remainder of the day being shunted about

Was sent into Bethune for a few articles of food & went into a coffee house for a glass of coffee. Talking to a few soldiers there we learned that an Irish Brigade had had an attack from German gas that morning. A few of the chaps who spoke to us had suffered slightly from the effects of a Gas shell landing near them. One of their number was lying on the station platform exhausted by the


[Page 47]
effect of the gas. The Civilians had all been wearing their gas helmets early in the morning. The atmosphere of the place had a very depressing effect on me that morning.

All along the line one could see soldiers, sometimes individual soldiers, at other times in numbers and they all seem to be billited in farmhouses or in houses in the villages.

France is a pretty place and everything is so peaceful here that one wonders if there really is "a war on". Yet it is only too true that a few miles from this station the trenches of the opposing armies are. Even this station siding comes in for a few shells from the Germans at unexpected moments.

Round about Bethune is an industrial part of France principally coal mining hence the importance of this place for both sides to have it.

28th. April. Frid.
Arrived at the station of La Gorgue-Estaires this morning. Drove up in a M.T. to Estaires, a good distance away, to the College de Sacre Coeur, part of which building we are taking over, for the purpose of turning into a C.C.S.

The rooms of this place were in a frightful mess and we were put on fatigue duty to clean up these places.

We are having good weather. There is a beautiful garden attached to this college. A quiet peaceful retreat it is. They are all boys who attend this school.

Aeroplanes are continually buzzing overhead. The firing


[Page 48]
line is only three miles from here.

The roar of Cannon, and the crackle of machine gun tell of deadly work being done not far away. One can hardly believe that they are so near the firing line, so quiet and peaceful is the scene at times.

April 29th. Sat.
Tent pitching to-day. Had a walk through the villages of Estaires. It is a very nice little place composed of people who work in the various mills and factories at La Gorgue.

The streets of the village are usually crowded with troops from the surrounding billets. The Y.M.C.A. occupy the ancient "Hotel de ville" or town hall of the village. This as usual is well patronized by the troops.

The Sanitary arrangements of the civil population are awful.

April 30th. Sun.
F.D. generally. Shells dropping pretty near.

May 1st. Mon.
Having a fairly easy time.

Digging drains etc.

Large numbers of N.Zders passed up the street to-day.

They are encamped near the village. Later in the evening they thronged the streets and cafes of the village.

May 3rd. Wed.
F.D. Heavy Artillert bombardment this morning. A German ‘plane brought down. A shell dropped and burst near the village.

May 4th. Thur
Ideal Weather. Putting a cement and brick floor in the L. The pretty little garden has


[Page 49]
been put out of bounds to troops.

Heavy A. bombarding to-night.

May 5th. Fri.
Putting up Marquees. Getting my teeth fixed up.

Had leave of duty. Went into the old church of the village. It is a fine large church and the interior of the place is splendid. One always finds that these R.C. Churches are always open and go in when one may we always find people, mostly women at prayers before the shrines and lighted candles. One always notices the beautiful stained glass windows of these church, which are magnificent. The tawdry decorations of these churches detract from the massive, solid, interior of these churches.

A house across the street from our C.C.S. is the favourite place for our men to get their coffee, beer, or wine, of an evening.

This is a nice clean place where a very homely women with her husband, a delicate looking man, and their young family reside.

These young gay troops gather of an evening, between the hours of six and eight and quaff of bottle after bottle of beer or vin blanc, while D and I content ourselves with a few cups of coffee and a few biscuits.

The ovens in these French Houses are not like the ordinary fire places at home. They are closed in fireplaces something in the form of a pedestal and stand well out into the centre of the house. This kind of fireplace to my mind


[Page 50]
is very good, being economical, and gives the house the benefit of all the heat that is going, although there is one disadvantage, one does not see the bright, red, roaring fire which is such a pleasure in a cold winter evening at home.

It is a big disadvantage not to be able to speak the language of the country that one is living in. I have often wanted, and I am sure Madame, Madamoseille and Monsieur have wanted also, while seated in these Estaminets, to have a nice homely talk to-gether. There experiences of the last few years of war must have been exciting. From what I could gather in a round about fashion, these French Villagers have had an awful time in the hand of Fritz.

There is an avenue of fine tall chestnut trees in the grounds of this college. They have been in full bloom for some time but the cold winds and heavy rains lately have knocked off the petals and the place looks as if it is winter time, with the petals lying on the ground, like snowflakes.

May 8th. Monday
Very cold, March like winds blowing. Not much to do at present. Had a walk through the village of Estaires and then crossed the canal bridge and walked down through the village of La Gorgue.

D and I dropped into an estaminet to have a cup of coffee. This place was owned by an old French couple They could not speak a word of English but by our little knowledge of a little French and the humorous actions of the old man we were enabled to learn of the history


[Page 51]
of this village at the beginning of the war. It seems that the Germans had occupied this village in 1914.

This old fellow was a shrewd old character and at the time the Germans entered the village he had not had a shave for a considerable time. This gave him the appearance of a very old man with bent shoulders and staggering gait he followed the male villagers of all ages to the square in the centre of the village. Taking advantage of his apparent age he slipped away unoticed from the other prisoners. His actions as he recited to us in French his escape made me laugh until the tears run down my cheeks

Two of this man’s brothers were taken away and are still prisoners in the Germans hands.

Nearly every second house up near the line is an Estaminet, a miniature public house, Coffee, Wine and beer are the drinks sold. Some places only sell coffee, others don’t sell coffee at all. In these places where beer is sold one often finds a barrel organ.

Passing along the street of an evening the harsh tone of some popular air being ground out on these organs gives one the impression of being at a fair where merry-go-rounds and crude entertainments are.

Looking in the door of these estaminets one finds them crowded with troops, some standing with glasses of beer in there hand, others seated in groups round small tables.

May 9th Tuesday
Went out on a Motor Transport for building material to a place a little past Sailly-sur-Lys. On our way we past a soldiers grave-yard. Looking at the


[Page 52]
little wooden crosses and examining the names on them I found they had been soldiers belonging mostly to Scottish Regiments, Black Watch and Scottish Rifles predominating.

Round about this cemetery there had been trenches made which had become destroyed by disuse. Men were busyily busily repairing these trenches.

May 11th. Thurs.
Had a Phenol Bath at the Divisonal Baths.

To-day is market day in the village. The village square was lined with stalls containing all kinds of home necessities, clothes, food stuffs, etc. The people come in from the farms in the surrounding country to sell and to buy. The elderly women dress very old fashionedly. The most of the farm people who possess a pony and trap drive in to the market but like as in every walk of life there are different grades of wealth, so, amongst these farm people we find some who are able to drive to market while others have to walk carrying their huge baskets in their hand. These latter, on going to market form a quaint old picture as they walk along the road, basket in hand large hat on head, and uncouthly dressed, chatting to one another on subjects which interest them regarding the well fare of one another, the progress of the war, the condition of the crops, homely subjects are nourishment to the mind and recreation from the hard work which must be entailed at the present time especially as fathers and sons are away at the war in another part of the "line"

Strange that this should happen the matter of three miles from the line. It shows how strong the natural


[Page 53]
home loving instinct must be in the people that they should remain so near the danger zone, never knowing the minute that "Fritz" may be successful in breaking through with all his atrocities following in his train.

Walked out the Le Petit Bois (The little Wood).

May 14th. Sun.
Walked out to Sailly-Sur-Lys. This is a land of small holdings. Many of the farmhouses are thatched-roofed and others are red tiled.

These farmhouses look exceedingly picturesque. The red tile or thatch peeping above the trees surrounding it longs  looks splendid from a distance, but when one gets near to them all the enchantment vanishes and a very crude dirty tumble down place meets the eye.

Inset in small niches outside these farmhouses are little statuettes either of the Virgin Mary or some other favourite saint. The people are Roman Catholic in their religious beliefs.

The women and girls of this village have very big feet. They are also turned in at the ankles in a very peculiar fashion. I sometimes think that it is owing to having to walk over the irregular cobble stones in the streets and foot paths.

The people have got to carry their household water from the village pump. This must have a very deteriorating effect on their figure.

The Y.M. which is in the Town Hall (Hotel de Ville) in the village square, seems to me to be a dead and alive kind of place.


[Page 54]
The boys belonging to the College de Sacre Coeur are like the British youngsters in their tricks. They take a special delight in playing tricks on their teachers and the soldiers, when on the play ground.

Not much doing at present.

The military are very strict in the closing of the estaminets across the way at eight o’clock. Went into the estaminet across the way from the C.C.S. for Coffee, Eggs and chips. We had to wait some time on them being made ready and by the time we had finished our meal eight o’clock struck. No sooner had the clock struck eight than in came the Military Police. There were a big number of us in the estaminet preparing to leave and we were about to give our names in when the M.P. decided to let us go.

The village was crowded with N.Z. troops hence the reason for closing the Estaminets so promptly.

It is very pleasant to listen to the singing of the College Boys. There is a church attached to the college and religious observances form a great part of their teaching as one can hear them at it morning noon and evening

May 15th. Mon.
Putting down a Cement Floor.

May 16th Tues.
Making cesspool and shifting drains. Very, very, wet this morning.

A beautiful moonlight night. We had all just gone to bed about ten o’clock when we were arouse by the sound of an aeroplane flying very low. Suddenly the sound of the


[Page 55]
propeller ceased and a few seconds afterwards Bang! Bang!!! Bang!!! and then a terrific crash, glass breaking, children and women screaming and everyone of the troops got out of bed. The first bomb from the ‘plane dropped in a garden only forty yards from our camp and made a huge hole in the garden.

May 17th. (Thursday) Wednesday

On nursing duty in C ward which is Medical.

Amongst the first cases was a Mental Case. Strange that this chap should know me in spite of the fact that he is a mental case. He told me that he occupied one of the beds in the cabin I had coming over in the "Otway" when I came over on the first trip to Sydney. He could tell me of many incidents which happened on board the "Otway". From his care sheet I learned that he had gone right through the Gallipoli campaign from the landing to the evacuation. One day while cleaning his rifle he had accidently shot his mate. He had just returned from England and had been paying his mate’s people a visit. Whether that had been the cause of his going mentally wrong I do not know but he now says that he has never been to England.

When coming over on the "Otway" he seemed a very quiet chap and always was with other two fellows. He was pretty often sea-sick.

May 18th. Thursday

In C Ward. Not much food for the patients and for ourselves. One feels ashamed to give the patients the small quantity of


[Page 56]
of food which is allowed them.

Had a half day off duty.

The day was just such a one as makes one think of Merry, Merry Springtime. I spent the afternoon lying in the field behind our isolation hospital. The beautiful green grass, the cows grazing in amongst the buttercups and daisies, the hot sun and the quiet peacefulness of the whole scene made one wonder if such was the case what the newspapers are full of namely war in France. Yet only three miles away the contending forces of the Allies and the Germans are face to face.

The quietness of this peaceful scene was occasionally broken by the ringing of the college bell calling the children from the play ground to their lessons and the dull thud of anti-air craft guns as they pelted shell after shell high up in the air at an enemy aeroplane who is out reconnoitring. After one of these Anti-Air Craft bombardments the sky with its hundreds of small puffs of smoke each puff representing a shell burst gave one the impression of the starry sky at night time.

Walking along by the side of a hedge away from the village out into the country this evening I came across a nest of the [indecipherable] with four eggs in it.

The sounds of a heavy Artillery bombardment away in the distance can be heard.

May 19th. Frid

Kept busy in C ward.

We are now being daily treated to the spectacle of Taubes and Fokkers


[Page 57]
being bombarded. It becomes quite exciting to watch these bombardments especially when these shells seem to strike perilously near the ‘plane. From the distance where we are one often thinks that a shell has burst right on to a ‘plane but up to the present I have not seen a plane brought down by this means.

May 22nd. Monday
A few pneumonia cases in Ward. Kept busy.

Fine weather. Had the afternoon off duty. This I spent washing my clothes and tidying up things generally.

Heavy rain this evening. Had a talk with an old Frenchman who keeps a beautiful vegetable garden in which he takes a great pride spending his time working early and late in it.

He could not talk a word of English but I managed by means of my broken French to have a pleasant and interesting conversation with him.

I happen to have a pipe in my mouth and our conversation started from the point of good and bad tobacco. He said that he had been a Cuirrusier or mounted soldiers in his early days.

He had a garden of about three acres and it was so well kept and the vegetables were so good it was a real pleasure to look at it. The rows of plants were as straight as a die. It was in his garden that the bomb dropped the other week


[Page 58]
destroying a splendid bed of lettuces.

May 23rd. Tues.
Put in charge to fix up ‘D’ Ward.

May 24th. Wed.
Troops that are passing through the village from north to south of the line are selling curios or soveniers of their fights. German Helmets, Bells, Revolvers, etc.

May 26th Frid.
Saw a remarkable instance of how a Steel Helmet saved a soldier’s life. Their was only a slight wound on his head but if he had not had had the helmet on, his skull would probably have been shattered by a bullet

Received the Anzac Book which I had ordered and paid for in Egypt. It is a very interesting and good souvenier of our stay on the Anzac position. Every word and every picture of it seems to be familiar to me.

After having a walk along the road outside of the village we dropped in to Madame Couzet’s to have a cup of coffee. I noticed that Madame tonight seemed a bit worried and on making inquiries I learned that the village people have been warned to clear out of the village within a month or remain at their own risk.

May 28th. Sun.
Had the afternoon off. Walked out to Sailly. Sur. Lye.


[Page 59]
There has been a great deal of fighting around this place as the large number of graves of soldiers denotes. Met A.R. who is now on the H.Q. Staff.

The weather today is beautiful and the country round about very pretty indeed. Met R & D. of the 1st Field Amb.

Met three Seaforth Highlanders belonging to the 9th Batt. On talking to them I found that they belonged to Alloa. D.I. happened to be reading the "Stirling Observer" as we were walking along the road and these chaps noticing this passed the remark and we stopped to talk to them making inquiries as to where Bro John’s battalion was likely to be. I learned from them that, 2nd Batt is down about Arras.

May 30th. Thurs.
Transferred to work in the Dressing Room. Delighted with my new job.

A very busy day in D.R. one chap brought in died a few minutes afterwards. He had a big, deep wound in his back. A little French Kiddie brought in with a leg broken. A bicycle had fallen on him in the street.

One big case which had to be dressed was a chap who had a leg taken off, arm smashed, large wound in shoulder and the other leg was severely injured with a few more minor injuries. He used to be brought into the D.R.


[Page 60]
smoking a cigarette. The dressing was so great and the pain too severe, so much so that the patient had to be put under an anesthetic while being dressed.

There was a terrific bombardment of heavy artillery to-night. It began about 8.30 and lasted for an hour.

We were called out of bed to-night. Large numbers of wounded were expected to arrive.

The various wards are being cleared out of patients, preparatory to a big influx. Great preparations are being made in case we should be rushed with wounded. It seemed to be a false alarm however for we were all sent to bed again about 12 o’clock.

At four o’clock in the morning I was aroused out of bed and tumbled into the dressing room.

There were three stretchers fixed up on trestles and wounded men were on them, their wounds being dressed. They were covered with blood from head to foot. We were kept going with dressing after dressing till about eight o’clock, then there was a lull till eleven when we were again rushed with wounded and in the afternoon there was a repetition of the forenoon. This carried on to late into the evening.

June 1st. Thurs.
Kept going the whole day long assisting to dress wounds.

June 2nd. Frid.
Evacuation of patients to-day.


[Page 61]
A much quieter day owing to the fact that nearly all the wounded have been sent away to the Base Hospital.

June 3rd. Sat.
Was in dressing room at 6 am. A chap who had been wounded in the head was there. The bullet went in through the right ear and out through the right eye. After the surgeon had made his examination they decided as he was a serious case to take him into the Operating Theatre. Another chap was lying on the Operating Table dead. The surgeons had done their best to save his life but all to no avail.

Bombs in my opinion seem to make the worst wounds and I am told that the soldiers near an exploding bomb are more often killed than wounded.

Being off duty in the afternoon D & myself walked out to the village of Doulieu between three & four miles away. At the commencement of the war the Germans had occupied this village and when they had to retire out of it again they burned the Church. Nothing but the bare walls of the large church were left standing.

In this part of France one finds on all the roads at frequent intervals shrines to the various Saints of the R.C. church. At these places the devout people come from their farms or homes to pray. One often comes across tall Crucifixes with the figure of Christ


[Page 62]
on the cross. These are principally at cross roads and to my mind have a gruesome appearance. I often noticed women as they passed these crucifixes make the sign of the cross on their chest and men and boys lift their hats when they passed them.

Nearly every farmhouse that I have seen since coming here has a little niche in the wall of the house. In this niche there is a figure of a favourite saint from which they hope to gain pardon for sins and help to live religious lives.

The people here go in greatly for symbols of religion. When one goes into the people houses the thing that strikes one most is the large number of crucifixes, Statuettes of Saints and Wax Flowers which decorate the home.

Sometimes one is inclined to think that these people attached more importance to these symbols than to actual deeds. Even in wearing apparel I have seen the larg children with numerous small metal statuettes hanging round the neck and while holding which ever saint they wish to pray to they mutter to themselves their prayers.

One usually saw these Statuettes standing on the dresser in the Kitchen with glass cases over them.

There is an old Windmill standing just outside the village of Doulieu. It did not seem to be in working order. These windmills seem very small and slender when looked at from a distance


[Page 63]
but they are pretty tall and massively built when viewed from close quarters.

These Windmills are mostly built of wood, even to the slates which were small pieces of oblong shaped wood.

This Windmill had the appearance of being out of action for some time. I suppose, windmills being built on elevated positions, are naturally looked upon with suspicion by the contending armies with the result that they are made special marks for destruction.

The men about here are either old or have a broken down appearance. Naturally the pick of the men are away fighting at the war and the weaklings are left behind and made more nerve racked by the fact that any day their home and all that they hold dear may be destroyed and taken away from them.

The land in this district is very flat. There are ditches all around the fields and these ditches are full of stagnant water.

Dad O’C has gone home on leave to Ireland.

Large numbers of troops are billeted in all the farmhouses round about. They are going from one part of the line to another and this is how they rest. In any old barn with straw as a bed the tired, mud covered warrior finds his resting place for the night.

A startling rumour is going about that a Great Naval Battle


[Page 64]
has taken place and that the British have lost 18 Ships and the Germans 14 ships.

June 4th. Sun.
The weather is dull and very cold. We have had a pretty busy day.

Have been taken in a cinematograph picture while assisting Capt East to dress the wounds of the badly wounded man of whom I mentioned in a previous part of my diary.

June 5th Mon.
Heavy artillery bombardment took place during the night. Evacuated wounded to the Base this morning.

More favourable news of the Great North Sea Battle.

June 7th. Wed.
Weather Showery.

Report in the newspaper that Lord Kitchener and all his staff have been drowned by the sinking of the H.M.S. Hampshire whilst on their way to Russia.

A wounded chap was brought into the D.R. suffering from a piece of the buckle and web equipment which had been blown right into his mouth and stuck in his cheek.

An Abdominal Case was brought in but died before he could be operated on.

Another had lost the sight of both eyes and an arm smashed.

I notice as I walk along the beautiful country roads that every second house especially in the country has been turned


[Page 65]
into an Estaminet.

An Estaminet is a place where you can buy coffee, beer, wine, eggs and chips etc. These are of great benefit to the hungry troops and a means of profit to the French people who own these estaminets

These estaminets usually have a notice board above their doorway and I have found the translating of the French words painted there on a great source of amusement and instruction in the French language. For instance one sees a sign "Au Faison Gris" and on looking up the dictionary one finds the meaning to be , "To the grey pheasant", "Au Petit Bois" to the "Little Wood", "Au Printemps", "To the Springtime". By translating these signboards, advertisements, etc one finds this an easy and interesting way of increasing one’s vocabulary of the French Languages. The names of these Estaminets are usually of a picturesque nature.

Have put in an application for leave to go home to Scotland.

June 8th. Thurs.
C.H. has gone on leave home.

June 9th Frid.
Major Campbell spoke to me of my leave home. There being only 1 warrant out he asked me to put my leave off till next week and there would be two warrants out, so that D.I. and myself would get home on leave to-gether. I agreed.


[Page 66]
June 10th. Sat.
There being three Scotties in the D.R. the Scotch dialect seems to tickle the fancy of the "foreigner" and there was much good natured banter at the peculiarities ascribed to Scotsmen by our officers.

We evacuated 104 patients to-day. We like these evacuations as they relieve us of a great deal of dressing of wounds when they are evacuated from our station to the base.

Had a cross country walk to Doulieu, spent a good part of the afternoon watching the movements of the numerous aeroplanes as they made their evolution on their way from the "Line" to the Aerodrome.

A thing that has struck me very much since coming here is the large number of people, men, women, boys and girls who are working in the fields, digging, planting, hoeing, gathering and yet only a few miles away the troops are face to face with the enemy. Any day the enemy may break through and all the hard work done by these people go for not.

The people cling to the soil, cling to the home that they have been brought up in and which they love. This is really a lesson in "hope" to all who have eyes to see.

June 11th. Sun.
On duty in D.R. all day to-day. Late in the evening two badly smashed up cases came in an before we finished them


[Page 67]
the night was far spent.

June 12th. Mon.
Rumour has it that the Aust are going to make a raid on the enemies trenches in one sector to-night. We have been told to make preparations at our C.C.S. in order to cope with any exceptional rush of wounded easily, if the raid should be unsuccessful or if there should be a large number of casualties.

The raid came off all right and what a delight it was that there was only two casualties. A few German prisoners were taken and there were also a number killed.

A memorial Service was held in the Convalescent Ward in memory of Lord Kitchener who along with his staff had been drowned in the North Sea.

The prevailing thought is that we can never find a man who will be capable of filling Lord Kitchener’s place.

Our memorial service co-incided with the great memorial Service being held in the Abbey of Westminster.

L.M. Johnstone going on leave to-night.

June 15th. Thursday.

My "luck is out". Just when I expected to get my leave home to "Bonnie Scotland" all leave is stopped for one reason or other. When Major Campbell told me that all leave had been stopped he also said a few of the other C.C.S.’s had had to put through 5000 wounded a day


[Page 68]
lately up in the Ypres Sector. This means some going for a C.C.S.

June 17th. Saturday

During the night we had a Gas Alarm. We were all ordered out of bed and put our Gas Masks on. The College Children were all out and had to go right to the top of the high building. This proved to be a False Alarm and was of merriment as these Gas Helmets are most uncomfortable to wear.

June 18th. Sun.
Beautiful Day. Things very quiet with us. C.N. back from leave. Took a cross country walk through fields of beans, Peas, Barley, Potatoes, etc. Narrow paths running parallel with the ditches allow one to wander all over the fields. There are no hedges around the fields where grain is grown

Sunday, in this part of the world even with fighting going on only about three miles from here, is pretty much the same as amongst civilians at home. The people dress in their Sunday clothes, all unnecessary work is stopped and people go to church returning with rather a brighter expression than they go.

June 19th. Mon.
A German prisoner who is very badly wounded put into A ward. We have been kept very busy to-day.

June 21st. Wed.
A group of nine aeroplanes push overhead to-day. Apparently


[Page 69]
returning from a raid on the enemies lines.

As they were crossing from the enemy country the sky was simply peppered with puffs of smoke where the anti aircraft shells had burst.

A big number of cases brought in this afternoon. D.R. very busy.

June 23rd. Fri.
Taking conversation lesson in French, with what success I do not know.

D.W. got 21 days detention for being absent without leave. He had gone out for a ride with one of the Motor Amb. The Amb. had broke down with the result that he could not get home that night.

B. got 28 days detention being out of the C.C.S. grounds after nine o’clock at night. Col N. is rather a strict disciplinarian judging by his sentences against offenders.

June 26th. Mon.
A large number of wounded came in to-day. Mostly Anesthetic Cases.

A rather amusing thing happened to-day. A couple of chaps were lying on stretchers in the D.R. waiting to be attended to. At first they lay there quite quietly, but on looking round about them they suddenly recognised one another. They apparently had been mates and unbeknowing to one another they had been wounded at different times. Their conversation was of rather a humorous nature


[Page 70]
in spite of the fact that they lay there waiting to have their pretty bad wounds dressed. The look of pleasure at meeting one another was unmistakable.

June 27th. Tues.
Owing to the large number of cases that have come in, nearly all our store of sterilized dressings have been used up

I don’t think our French conversation lessons are going to be much of a success The interpreter who is teaching us does not seem to have the happy knack of imparting knowledge of that kind.

June 28th. Wed.
In order to give other men experience of work in the D.R. I am relieving the orderly in the Officer’s Ward.

There is a very pleasant outlook from the top windows of this building. We are (well ) well out into the country and one can look into the pretty gardens of the villagers gardens which are well kept and containing beautiful fruit trees. Further over we look into beautiful green fields with cattle quietly grazing in them and bordered with tall trees and with hedges. Only the grazing fields seem to have hedges in this country.

June 29th. Thurs.
Tremendous bombardment of our Artillery to-night. The roar of the cannon sounded terrific and the bombardments lasted from midnight till


[Page 71]
early in the morning.

C.B. having got a bit drunk and becoming disgusted with what he had to do with the men took off his corporal stripes in an irregular manner. Result 14 days detention.

Rather a decent chap C.B. too good natured to domineer over men.

Evac. this morning.

A German prisoner died in hospital to-day.

July 1st. Sat.
A terrific bombardment took place to-day. The vibration caused by the guns shook the ground and the houses round about.

Being in the habit of going into Madame Cuzet ’ for a cup of coffee off an evening quite unconsciously at the place where I was in the habit of sitting down at the table there was a large looking glass in which I used to look on seating myself down. The Family had apparently noticed this little weakness of mine and this evening when I went in I notice a smile over all their faces as I sat down in my usual place. I did’ nt quite understand just for the moment then it suddenly dawned upon me that "my" looking glass had disappeared, and on making a remark to Madame it was laughingly replaced.

July 8th. Sun.
A number of wounded came in during the night.

A party of them had a raid into the enemies trenches.


[Page 72]
These men who came in wounded had their faces all blackened the reason being so that they would be less liable to be recognized in the darkness of the night.

July 3rd Mon.
E. this morning.

11 Deaths to-day.

An Abdominal Case early this morning.

Return of C.B: C.M: B.C: D.W: from Paris leave.

July 5th. Wed.
A Big number of serious cases came in to-day. Numerous deaths

The people who have Cherry trees are all busy picking the cherries of the trees. Tall ladders are used to reach them.

The Australian troops are on the march : and are passing this way to-day. These chaps have just come over from Egypt. They have done a good bit of marching since landing in this country and many of them were foot sore and limped along as best they could, some even had their boots off

On the whole however they seem a fine body of chaps.

The streets are now crowded with them, they are billeted in town in all kind of places any place that a man can stretch himself in the village is used up.

July 9th. Sun.
Good report in the newspaper regarding British advance.

Aeroplanes overhead are pretty busy.

Witnessed a sale of furniture


[Page 73]
in one of the houses in the village. The group around the door was mostly women and in the centre of the group was a cheery faced old Frenchman who had to submit to a good deal of banter from the women as he was selling the goods.

At bed time this evening we heard an aeroplane overhead and expect to have bombs dropped upon us. Luckily, if he was after our village he had missed his mark as the bombs that were droph, droph a good distance away from us.

July 12th. Wed.
When I first came to this village and visited the cemetery here, the graves were mostly English and Scottish troops but now the number is being gradually increased with members of the Australian battalions.

Speaking to the grave digger, he pointed out to me a part of the cemetery which is being left vacant. This part is to be used for putting up a monument and I believe the same thing is being done in all the military cemeteryes.

The other day there were a few battalions of Aust troops passed by our C.C.S. Seeing the Red Cross above the gateway, there were many remarks passed by them to those of us standing near. Remarks such as, "Have you got a bed for me in there?" Have my bed ready for me digger" and such expressions as those were made in a laughing


[Page 74]
manner.

It so happen to-day that as one of the wounded men was lying on a stretcher having his wounds attended he reminded us of some of the humorous remarks made only a few days ago. As he said himself little did he think that he would actually be in hospital and that in his case at least "a true word was said in jest".

He said that a shell had landed in amongst a dozen of them and some had been killed.

July 17th. Mon.
Have had quite a busy time lately. Feeling quite fatigued. Have been on from very early morning till late at night.

C.N. has received a telegram that his brother had been killed at the front.

News of splendid advances having been made by the British troops.

A great deal of anesthetics are being given in the D.R. New dressing rooms are being opened in order to cope with the rushes which have been our experience lately.

July 19th. Wednesday.

Very cold during the night

Heavy bombardment all day long.

Evacuation this morning. Things pretty quiet. It is said that a large number of our casualties have been caused by short dropping by our own artillery.

The College Boys are soon to have


[Page 75]
their holidays. Instead of prizes, books etc are being given this year, the winners are to have certificates on which are lithographed portraits of famous generals engaged in the present war.

July 20th. Thursday.

Our troops attack during the night at Fleurbaix.

They were successful in getting through into the 3rd Line of the enemies trenches but were driven out again.

We have lost large numbers of killed and wounded. If rumour is true someone has blundered.

The wounded simply poured into out C.C.S. In the dressing room we were going from early morning till after mid-night. A number of German wounded were attended to last. Had a P.C. from John saying that he had been in the scrap of July 7th.

July 24th. Mon.
Men who have been lying out in No Mans Land since the attack on the 19th have been brought in. They are exceedingly weak and light, otherwise they are not suffering much from the effects.

July 26th. Wed.
A Scotchman brought in wounded through the thigh to-day. He has been lying out since the 19th. He stated that owing to him having his heavy equipment on, after being wounded he was not able to crawl back to his own lines. He also said that the slightest movement that he


[Page 76]
made brought a shower of bullets in his direction. It is marvellous how these chaps kept so cheerful after having gone through such privation and exposure as these chaps must have done.

There is a meeting of a lot of the Medical Staff heads over at the Chateau where the Officers mess is at present.

Devoting any spare time that I have to learning a few French phrases.

Feeling very unsettled at the present. Can neither settle to read or to write, the only thing that I seem to have any time for is to study the French language.

July 27th. Thursday.

Went out to the village of Laventie. It looked as if it had been a very pretty little place at one time but now it is a mere wreck of a place. Nothing but gaunt bare wall, with debris at the foot, remained of the church. Huge shell holes were to be seen in buildings The glass window broken, the cracks in the walls of the houses, all went to tell of the terrible times this village has passed and is still passing through. It is only a mile from the front line of trenches.

On our way we passed one of our batteries which was sending a few shells over to Fritz.

The whole atmosphere of the place reminded me of days


[Page 77]
spent at Anzac.

The loud report of the gun firing, the whizz-z-z of the shell through the air, the sound of the explosion a minute or so afterwards was all that was apparent to me. But, should I let my imagination rove, I can see bricks flying up in the air, hear the groans of the wounded and dying, then the news reaching those whom they hold dear and the heart breaking scenes which would be the consequence.
Such is War, where the glory of such a thing as war comes in I fail to see it. It is tragedy and a disgrace to civilization.

At this point we were not very far from the trenches but my curiosity in this respect has been satisfied long ago. I have seen sufficient results of war to satisfy me for a life-time.

While seated at the cross roads, who should come along but Major Brooke Moore, one of the officers. He was on the hunt for some excitement. After having a look round he offered us a ride back to the C.C.S. in a Motor Amb, a thing we gladly accepted.

July 29th. Saturday

Weather beautiful, something like summer weather.

Went for a walk across country. Passing through fields of beans, peas, oats, potatoes, etc. This struck me as a good business point of these peasant who do not believe in putting all their eggs into one basket.


[Page 78]
At various places all over the country here where there is grazing land it is bordered with tall trees. This I have no doubt is a means of providing timber, and still being grown without any loss of land for produce etc.

Another kind of tree one finds growing by the side of the ditches is the willow. It is polleyed and the branches taken off are used as fuel. They are intensely utilitarian, these peasants.

Never a day passes but one sees numerous aeroplanes over our heads either our own or the enemies and accompanying them are the anti-air craft shells bursting all around. So far I have never seen a shell strike a plane yet but they do good in this respect that they kept the plane from coming down too low and either bombing a good mark or getting valuable information regarding the movement of troops etc.

News in newspaper that Russia is making rapid advances.

July 30th Saturday

Heavy Artillery bombardment.

Some of the chaps who were at the landing on Gallipoli say that the bombardments here are far worst than what happened on the 20th of April 15. In fact one chap said he would rather put nine months in on Gallipoli than one month on the western front. The privation on Gallipoli were more than in France.


[Page 79]
July 31st. Mon.
C.N. and myself went for a stroll over the fields. We got out at the Grand Bois (Big Wood) and landed into a little cottage and had coffee and a chat in broken French with Madame and daughters. I became quite taken on with Marguerite and so she seemed with me but being R.C. from the many signs of the cross I saw her make, made one shy off.

After having coffee we made our way round by Neuf Berquin. The church in this place like the rest of the churches near the line was very badly damaged.

August 2nd. Wed.
C.N. and I took a walk out by the "Petit Bois" and round by the "Grand Bois" to the place that we had visited two or three days ago.

We were invited in to have coffee again and we caused a great deal of merriment amongst them by our endeavour to speak "Francais". Old Madame was busying herself about the home, which although to outward appearance it was dilapidated looking, inside the home was very nice and very clean. Marguerite was sitting at the window sewing a dress. The other sisters were all out in the fields working.

I learn from Madame Cuzlet that this family, who all consider to be fairly well off, had been driven from their home, a farm near La Basser


[Page 80]
by the Germans.

They have two sons fighting down on the Somme, and as we were seated there Madame was busy packing up a box containing biscuits, scones, etc, to send to one of her sons, who is in the French Artillery and who is at present in that part of the line where heavy fighting is going on.

I admire the French Stoves which I see in the homes of the French people. They are built well out into the kitchen floor and seem very economical and allow a party to sit round it and get all the warmth that is going.

In this house I saw also a rather ingenious arrangement to catch flies.

A glass arrangement something similar to a water glass but having a hole in the bottom with edges turned up so as to hold a certain amount of beer. Just below the hole is placed a piece of sugar which attracts the flies. After they have surfeited themselves with sugar, in flying away they fly upwards and into the glass thence into the beer, and die. If one judges by the number of flies that floated about in the beer this seems to be a very successful fly catcher.

Aug 3rd. Frid

A humorous programme got up by some one in the unit and hung up in our Mess Room caused a good deal


[Page 81]
of amusement amongst the boys as each item seems to hit off the individual whose names was put down as the singer for instance Cpl Grubber was born and brought up in U.S.A. and often talked about America:

Song: "I want to go back to U.S.A." L cpl Grubber.

L Cpl Shaw was a very effeminate kind of chap.

Madaleine Solo, "Queen of the earth" L cpl Shaw, etc.

Aug 4th. Sat.
Farly busy this forenoon.

On taking a walk this evening and so we were passing one of the numerous Shrines to be seen near here we witnessed a women with five little children on bended knees saying their prayers to the saints which the shrine represented.

Aug 5th. Saturday

A few wounded were brought in to the C.C.S. late this evening. A shell had dropt right into their billet out Laventie way. They were all covered with dust from the wall and brick etc.

The civilian who owned the house in which they were billetted died in hospital as a result of wounds received.

Went to "Grand Bois". Spent a very pleasant afternoon. A number of other chaps came in and we left, M. whispering as we were going out, to come


[Page 82]
back soon.

On our way back to the C.C.S. we saw a big number of civilians looking away towards the trenches and up into the air. Looking in that direction we saw two long streaks of smoke, and this we learned had been the caused by two aeroplanes being brought down in flames by Anti-Air craft guns.

Aug 7th. Mon
Kit inspection. Beautiful weather. Harvesting has been commenced by the French peasantry. The people all working up till nine o’clock in the evening in the fields.

A concert got up by members of the unit proved very successful. The Convalescent ward was used as a Concert Room. In fact, in peace time, is a concert hall. The Ward was crowded to the door and the talent shown by the various artists was indeed very good.

The favourite item was a piece entitled secrets by M.B.

There were little humorous biographies of Officers and men of the unit. And as each verse of four lines was sung it was greeted with roars of laughter. Some of the officers and men were rather hard hit but they all took it in good part.

Capt C. Major F. left the unit to-day.

A heavy bombardment going on to-night.

Aug 9th. Wed.
A large number of the cases in


[Page 83]
hospital are wounded, accidental or Self-Inflicted. These men have got to pass before a board of inquiry to prove whether their wounds have been caused by accident or have been self-inflicted. If they have been caused by gross carelessness or by self-inflicted intentionally they are sent to a camp there to be tried and probably find that they get imprisonment for anything up to two years imprisonment.

Some men wound themselves in the hand, or the foot, in order to get out of the fighting line. It never seems to occur to them that they will be found out, but the fact of the matter is very few escape without punishment.

Often I have seen men brought into the C.C.S. wounded and by there whole attitude they have given themselves away. When one looked at their wounded limb one felt instinctively that they had been self-inflicted especially if it happened to be in the hand or foot. Often if the shot had been fired at close quarters there would be the black smoke mark around the entrance to the wound. Some dodges were tried to obirate this such as putting one’s hand above the parapet or contriving to make the bullet pass through a tin of Bully Beef before it entered the hand or foot.

The troops who are holding this part of the line at present


[Page 84]
are a lot of young English troops who have been over in England training for the last two years.

Naturally being inexperienced in actual warfare they have got the wind up, hence the large number of self inflicted amongst them. Once they have a month or two’s experience they should be all right. Actual warfare is a heavy strain on people especially so on young fellows who have never experienced it.

Aug 12th. Saturday

Had a motor trip of about 60 miles to the infectious hospital near St. Omer. The day being nice and warm I enjoyed the trip immensely.

On arriving back from St Omer I received a parcel from home containing, pancakes, scones, and a tin of Rasp & Red Currant Jam. Enjoyed them very much.

Have got Bunk fitted up in a little hut which has been set apart for the O.T. and D.R. Staff.

Aug 14th> Mon.
King George V passed through in train to-day.

Rumour has it that he made a statement at Etaples, that within a fortnight, there would be something done which would startle the world.

The wild flowers which are growing in the fields and ditches are simply magnificent and I have found great pleasure in studying them.


[Page 85]
There are a great many frogs to be seen about here. They spring up from around ones feet in all directions.

August 15th. Thurs.
The feast of St Marie is being celebrated to-day. The people are going about in holiday attire and the church bells are ringing at various intervals during the day.

August 16th. Fri
Walked round by Neuf Berquin in the afternoon and in the evening went round by Stenwerck. Passed a very tall crucifix surrounded by tall trees.

August 17th. Sat
Very quiet to-day. Weather Showery.

French civilians are making a practise of coming to the C.C.S. to have dressings and wounds attended to, much to the annoyance of the M.O.’s.

Aug 20th. Sun.
A raid took place and the men who went over did not find anyone in the trenches but on their return to their own trenches they were shelled and had a good number of casualties.

Fritz is becoming wide awake to these raids now-a-days. When there is a raid on he is clearing back from that part of the line, and when the raider returning to there own trenches he lets them have it with a vengeance.

There seems to be more losses than gains in these raids


[Page 86]
from what I can learn of them.

Aug 21st Mon.
Two Evac this morning. Large numbers of English troops are at present billetted in and around the village. This part of the world lends itself to troops travelling as there are so many farmhouses about. The accommodation is not much good still when one’s head is more or less covered in this game one has got to be thankful. It also lends itself to an invading army, the ground being so level, movement is rapid.

We were entertained by a French woman who had had her child attended to at the D.R. As we were seated there having some coffee a young French Soldier along with a few more youths came in to the house. The soldier immediately embraced and kissed madame and monsieur and thinking that our presence here was in the way we made our departure.

Aug 23rd Wed.
An Abdominal, a hopeless case came in during the night.

Went out to the Aerodrome near Merville. A young Australian aviator, a chap who had been in the infantry as a private and was at Gallipoli showed us over the Aerodrome. He showed us his own machine which he had been up in, in the


[Page 87]
morning. He came down with about thirty shrapnel shots in it luckily none of them had struck any vital spot and he was able to land at the ‘Drome in safety.

He stated that the Germans are becoming very smart and aiming very straight around these parts.

The streets of the village are crowded with troops who are spending the night here.

August 20th. Fri.
The peasants are busy taking in their crops and well built stack are being built all over the place.

A great many Tommies are coming in to hospital now, sick.

August 27th. Sun.
Walked out to Doulieu.

August 28th. Mon.
Roumania has entered the conflict along with the Allies.

Sept 1st. Fri.
Three soldiers were brought in during the night wounded. One of our number who had been called out to attend to them was much annoyed at having to do so. When we asked him how he got on, he said "That B------ went and died and that other is soon going to die the B------." And we all laughed. This shows how callous we become on this job.

Sept 2nd. Sat.
Went along the Rue Grande


[Page 88]
and went into the small shop opposite the Eglise or church. Had rather an amusing time speaking a concoction of English and French mixed up.

Took a walk out Sailly way. Saw an aviator making a magnificent flight and in it looping the loop.

Intoxication amongst even the youngest boys of our unit is becoming quite a common occurrence now-a-days. They get down into the village of an evening and getting into one of these Estaminets where Beer, Wine, etc are sold and where there may be one or two pretty Madamoiselles flirting about they create within them a spirit of chivalry which finds vent in the squandering of all there money in wine etc losing there money, wits, and control of their legs for the sake of a pretty face.

As a rule these estaminets which are most frequented by the troops have a few of these pretty little maidens as attraction or decoys, another case of "come into my parlour said the spider to the fly".

Sept 3rd. Sun.
Revolution in Greece, according to the newspapers.

Sept 4th. Mon.
After a stroll out to Steenwerck Road went and had coffee in Madame C’s house, where there happened to be a very merry crowd of the "Boys" drinking bottle after bottle of "Bock".


[Page 89]
The days show signs of shortening and there is also a slight touch of cold about the air.

Sept 5th. Tues.
"Leo John" got his stars.

While out this afternoon we got some lovely Blackberries growing by the roadside.

An exceedingly heavy bombardment is going on to-night with our Artillery.

Sept 7th. Thurs.
Evac by barge on the Canal. Plenty of aeroplanes flying about to-day.

Not much dressing doing. Have commenced painting the D.R. white and brown.

Sept 12th. Tues.
The Harvests seem to be all gathered in.

The trees are putting on their autumn garb. The variety of tints shown on the trees are gorgeous.

Sept 13th. Wed.
Met Willie Zatt who had travelled from Steinvoorde to see us. He had set out to walk but was fortunate in getting a lift part of the way. He looks well but has had a good deal of roughing it down in the Somme where he has been this last month.

Continuous bombardment nearly all night by our own artillery.

Sept 14th. Thurs.
Very showery to-day. Walking along a country road we observed a cross formed by placing two sheafs of grain in that shape and a piece of shrub like boxwood was stuck in the centre. On making


[Page 90]
enquiries for the reason of this we were told that at the farmhouse where this cross was put there has been a death. Just as in the case of our own country when the blinds are drawn.

Sept 16th. Sat.
Not much dressing doing.

Still continuing painting the D.R.

The fields look very picturesque at present.

The manner in which the beans are taken up is very interesting. They are pulled up by the the roots in bundles and turned upside down. There they are left for a few day. Then long poles about 3" in diameter and 7 ft long are placed in the ground. To the poles the roots of the beans are fixed and encircling the pole. This leaves the beans outside and as the reason of this procedure is to allow the beans to dry the idea seems to be very good indeed.

Sept 18th. Mon
Owing to an unsuccessful raid this morning we were kept very busy. Evact.

Sept 19th. Tues

The concert party of our unit are getting up a pierrot show. They have been getting special dresses made, and a few of us spent some time making pom. poms. for these dresses.

Sept 20th. Wed.
Very few troops are to be seen on the streets of Estaires


[Page 91]
after the estaminets are closed at eight. The evenings are becoming rapidly shorter.

There is great excitement amongst our pierrot members to-night. This is the night of the show, their dresses have been late in turning up and they are in a fever of excitement getting ready.

The concert turned out to be splendid.

W. Zatt arrived here to join our unit having got a transfer from the 7th F. Amb.

Sept 23rd. Sat
A beautiful Autumn day. Evac to-day by barge.

Sept 24th. 25th. Mon.
Four wounded came in to-day as the result of an explosion of a Fritz bomb in one of their hands whilst examining it.

The chap who had been holding the bomb whilst it was being examined got the worst injuries. He got one of his hands blown off and had a few other serious injuries as well.

One of the other chaps was wounded by fragment of bones from the above chaps hand.

A sight for a Scotchman’s sore eyes or sore heart to-day. Battalion of Seaforths, Gordons, A & S Highlander and Royal Scots marched past our C.C.S. to the tune of the bagpipes. I recognised a few of the chaps as men I had known at home.


[Page 92]
To me there is nothing finer than to see a battalion of highlanders on the march. The kilt seems to enhance the appearance of the men and makes them big and brawny looking.

Amongst the S. chaps that I have seen to-day in the village G. McK., M., W., J. T. came up to the C.C.S. to see me and we had a talk regarding old times.

It is now almost two years since I joined the army and out of the thousands of chaps that I have met these few are all that I had known previous to leaving the old country.

I also met M.C. & Piper B. of the 7th A. & S.H.

Thursday Sept 28th.

Some of the chaps belonging to the Concert party had a night out to-night. The majority of them came home rather tipsy. One of them had a bottle of champagne in his hand and letting it drop, it fell and smashed on the floor causing an abnoxious smell throughout the night.

Sept 29th. Fri.
On our way over to the "Grand Bois" we came across an aeroplane which had landed in a ploughed field. It apparently had had to come down through engine trouble as it was quite uninjured.

Oct 1st. Sun
Numerous raids took place last night, but they must


[Page 93]
have been fairly successful as there were only a few wounded came in.

There is a wintry touch in the air just now.

Oct 3rd. Tues.
Have seen the Blighty Leave List to-day. There are unfortunately six in front of me.

X Ray plant for the C.C.S. has arrived to-day.

Oct 4th. Wed.
A wounded man named Rickson has been brought into hospital. It was thought that he would have to lose his leg but Capt E has endeavoured to save it and has spent a great deal of pains with the wound. There is marked improvement in the foot to-day and everything looks bright for the safety of the Limb.

Oct 9th. Mon.
Strong winds are very prevalent these last few days.

The nights are beautiful and moonlight.

Oct 10th. Tues

Second anniversary of our entry into camp.

Walked round by Doulieu & Neuf Beiquin in the afternoon and in the evening walked out the Steinwerck road a bit.

Oct 11th. Wed.
General Plummer inspected C.C.S. to-day. Plummer does not strike one as being much of a soldier. He looks too polished and refined, but if the truth be known he is one of the best generals that we have in the


[Page 94]
army at the present time. Capt East and Major Campbell left our unit to-day, they got a splendid send-off.

Capt Williams, quite a boy, joined our unit to-day. Capt East is our best man but like many more good men he has not had a fair spin.

Very wet to-day. The roads are terribly muddy. This brought home to us the truth of the expression "Muddy Flanders".

Oct 12th. Thurs

The Aus. F. Amb have been clearing out their patients preparatory to moving, the result is we have received an extra number of patients in to-day.

The N.Zders have taken over the line at this part and the relieved Aust are crowding into the village.

D.W. and I went down to the village photographers and had our photograph taken.

Went for a walk to the Grand Bois, but finding the Maison full up we did not have coffee but continued our journey and landed back at Madame Cuzet where we enjoyed a hot cup of black coffee and incidently a heated argument on conscription.

Oct 15th. Sun.
A large number of minor cases had to be dealt with to-day. There being no Field Amb to deal with them so the F.A. are on the move.

Oct 16th. Mon.
Walked out to Merville which


[Page 95]
is a distance of about four miles from Estaires. It is a fairly large village and contains a few large shops. The day was a bit frosty and made one feel in fit form for a walk.

Capt Bennet has taken the place of Major Yeatman.

Oct 19th. Thurs

The cases in hospital are mostly medical at present.

Saw an aeroplane brought down.

An Aviator who had been brought down by the Germans came into the D.R. wounded slightly.

He said that the clouds that he had passed through this morning were snow.

The peasants are working in the fields lifting the potatoes and the beetroot.

The country round about is taking on a bare wintry appearance. The sky is cloudy, the earth is damp, the air is cold and the trees and fields are bare.

Saw a large number of Carrion Crows flying about, also Starlings, Larks, Yellow Hammers are pretty plentiful.

Oct 22nd. Sun.
There has not been very much dressing to do lately.

Football match to-day. Our team defeated by three points.

Oct 23rd. Mon.
Big evact this morning.

The weather is cold just now. Some of the boys learned that I sleep with only two blankets over me. This caused quite


[Page 96]
a stir amongst them because some of them have got as much as eight or nine blankets over them at night time.

There is a big ration of cheese given to us and at one time I had to stand a good deal of good natured chaff at being the only one who ate cheese, and as I enjoyed, I ate a good quantity, it does not constipate if I take it with jam on my bread. Now that I have got a number of the others educated to take cheese this way, I am now running the risk of not getting my own ration of it the demand being so great.

Oct 24th. Tues.
Birthday to-day. My last four birthdays have been spent in different parts of the Globe. First in Scotland, second in Australia, third on Anzac, fourth in France.

Concert held this evening, which was very good indeed. One of the items was a mock operation. As a rule at these concerts there are a great deal of skits made up against the officers and men, and in this case I came in for a bit of a rub myself.

Oct 25th.

As we were walking along the country road to-night in pitch darkness, we met a chap driving a small cart. He inquired of us if we had seen a big piece of meat lying along the road. It seems that in the darkness some of the rations which he was driving to his unit had rolled off.


[Page 97]
This troubled him greatly for as he said if he did not find the rations it meant that the men would have to go short the next day. Those of us in the army, especially the A.I.F. know how men can growl if anything goes wrong.

Oct 27th. Fri.
A chap who had the side of his face blown off about the eye was examined by a Specialist.

He had a very nasty gash but the specialist says he may come all right if well looked after by a specialist.

Oct 29th. Sun.
Transferred to work in the Operating Theatre, D.I. and myself are now working to-gether.

Came across some beautiful paintings, down in the village stationers. They depict war scenes and are principly ruins of churches, houses, etc but the artistic effect of the painting are very well indeed.

Some beautiful Flower, P.Cs took my fancy in the shop and I bought a number of them, enough to fill a P.C. Album. I also bought a book of poems in French by Alfred de Musset.

In this same shop which sold many good things, one found that they sold many questionable things especially in pictorial line. Madame showed us them very slyly but noticing that we were not attracted by them she


[Page 98]
just as slyly put them away again.

Madame told us that at the time this village was occupied by the Germans at the commencement of the war a number of men and women were killed by the Germens and their body were afterward thrown into the canal which runs through the village.

Nov 3rd. Fri.
Went down to the Imprimeur and bought a few more pictures making a total of ten.

Received a parcel from home containing cake, shortbread, Apple Tart. The contents of the parcel which was sent from home were thoroughly enjoyed. I also received a copy of Longfellow’s poems as a birthday present from Jane. Received from "Foyle" the Medical Encyclopaedia, Esperanto Dictionary, Shakespeare work.

Nov 4th. Sat.
We have been doing quite a number of operations lately. Appendix and Empyeama principly.

Read "Evangeline" again.

Nov 6th. Mon.
Compulsory Bathing Parade. All marched down to the divisional baths.

Feel very unsettled just at present

Nov 10th. Fri.
A chap was brought into the O.T. terribly smashed about the leg and his arm blown off. We were rushed to prepare for the Operation but after giving him


[Page 99]
an infusion of saline, they saw the game was up with him and he was left to breathe his last.

Col Newlands, one of the finest surgeons that one could wish to meet is leaving our unit to go as surgeon specialist to No 3 A.G.H.

Lt Col Dick is taking his place.

Have put in another application for leave to Scotland.

Nov 11th. Sun.
Major Brooke Moore left our unit to-day and Lt Col. Shaw is taking his place as surgeon specialist to the unit.

Inspection this evening by new O.C. Says he is highly pleased with the turn out of the men etc, etc, etc.

Nov 14th. Tuesday
Walking along the banks of the canal I saw a number of German prisoners unloading timber from the barges. They seem big, healthy, contented individuals

Heavy bombardment

Nov 17th. Friday.

Exceedingly cold this morning. Frost on the ground.

Walked out to Merville. Have got an improvised stove into our hut, which improves matters a bit.

Got the opportunity to go to Paris on three days leaves but as this would probably interfere with my leave to Scotland I did not take it on.

Nov 21st Tues.

[Page 100]
Got instruction in the use of the new gas helmet, the box type.

Nov 23rd. Thurs.
Went down to the Divisional baths.

Nov 24th. Frid.
We have been doing a number of operations lately, Appendicitis, Hernia, etc.

Had just received a letter from home when a chap from the office came over and told me that I have to get ready to go on leave for home.

Nov 25th Sat
Two years since I left Aust in the Kyarra for Active Service

Left in Motor Amb for Hazebrouck in order to catch the train for Boulogne. Col Dick & Lieut Johnstone went up in the same car.

It rained very heavily when I reached Hazebrouck. Hazebrouck is a pretty big place and is a railway centre. It has a fine big Hotel de Ville and square in the centre of the town.

I left my kit at the YMCA hut near the station and proceeded to the Office of DMS for my leave pass which I got at three o’clock.

The train left Hazebrouck at 3.30 in the afternoon arriving at Boulogne at 9 pm. We had been picking up troops at station all along the line with the result that there was a huge stream of troops on the platform at Boulogne on leave to blighty.

On reaching Boulogne we were all marched to Coppings Brewery which is used as a billet for


[Page 101]
troops going on leave to Blighty. It was a huge building consisting of four or five stories and served the purpose very well indeed. We were each issued with three blankets and three boards to sleep on.

We were all too-much excited to sleep well that night.

Nov 26th. Sun.
Marched to the wharf and sailed from Boulogne at 9 a.m. arriving at Folkestone at 11 a.m. There the leave train was waiting on us and soon we were speeding our way to Euston Victoria, London. I was a bit unfortunate and had to stand in the corridor all the way. Drove in a taxi to Euston and arrived there about 4.30 p.m.

The train for Scotland was due to leave at 8.50 so I whiled the time away waiting on the platform. I got settled down after a good deal of difficulty and had to stand or lie in the corridor of the train nearly all the way from London to Scotland, not a very pleasant experience, but worth all the trouble to get home for a few hours.

Nov 27th. Mon
Reaching home about 8.45 feeling a bit tired out.

The thing that struck me in Stirling when home on leave was the scarcity of young men and the predominence of women.

Went to the pictures in the evening with Jane.

Nov 28th. Tues.

[Page 102]
Visited a few old friends and also went down to the Factory and had a talk with a few old acquaintances.

They seem to think that I am looking very well, rather a compliment to me I think. Went to the pictures with Jane, in the evening.

Wednesday Nov 29th.

Much to my surprise D Zatt arrived home on leave. Little Euphemia I, taken to hospital with Fever.

Went out to minister’s for afternoon tea.

Nov 30th Thurs.
Went for a stroll with Jane and in the evening went to the pictures with J. I. D. M.

Dec 1st Fri
Had a look round the book shops buying a few books to take back with me.

Rather a coincidence took place, lying on the dresser at home was a book entitled Gallipoli, naturally I picked it up and what should I see but a full page photograph of the North Beach, Anzac, taken from our dug-out.

Dec 2nd. Sat.
Went to Edinburgh with D. D. A. J. and Father.

We separated at Edinburgh. J, myself and Father went to Prestonpans.

Dec 3rd. Sun.
Went to Church. In the evening spent a few hours with Mr Steele and Mr Christie.

In the evening after Church I went a walk with Ina.


[Page 103]
Collected my gear to-gether getting ready for the way.

Dec 4th. Mon
All the time I have been on leave the weather has been very wet, but to-day I am expecting to leave, the weather is of the finest.

The streets of Stirling are miserable at night time, more miserable even than the village streets near the line in France. The streets in Stirling are in all but utter darkness owing to the fear of aeroplanes bombing the town. Heavy fines are being exacted for breaches of the law in showing lights at night time.

Had tea at I in the evening. Left home to catch the 9.30 train to London.

Slept all the way to London.

Dec 5th. Tues

The train arrived two hours late. Took "Tube" to Charing Cross then taxi to Horseferry Rd, A.I.F. Headquarters to get the remainder of my gear. Took taxi to Waterloo Station. Got train to Romsey at 12.10 reaching Eastleigh 3.30 changed for Romsey at 4 o’clock. Found I had to walk a mile or two to the A.V.C. where I met Bob.

After having tea B & I walked back to the village and after spending a few hours to-gether I caught my train back to London arriving there about midnight

I had great difficulty in getting a Taxi to take me to


[Page 104]
Horseferry Road, Anzac Buffet but after calling in the Policeman to my aid I was successful in getting a Taxi, the driver meanwhile grunting out "I ain’t got much petrol", we sped on our way and reached the Anzac Buffet all right.

There I got a bed on the Floor and making myself comfortable for a few hours I went to sleep, getting up early enough to catch the train for Folkestone. There were hundreds of bed in this place, some made like the berths on a ship others consisted of mattresses on the floor.

I was sorry that I did not see much of London, but one cannot get all one wants so they have just got to be content with what they get.

Dec 6th. Wed.
Getting my gear from the Head Quarters at 5 a.m and inquiring my way from a policeman, as the streets were pitch dark I ultimately reached the crowd of troops who were returning from leave at Victoria Station. The station was packed with soldiers and friends to see them off.

Getting a comfortable seat we left in the train at 7 a.m. Feeling a bit tired I sleep slept all the way.

We arrived at Folkestone at 9.45.

After some maze like wanderings


[Page 105]
we found that we were to be billetted in a long terrace of mansions overlooking the sea and which were all fenced off so that we could not get out of the grounds, once we were in.

I spent most of my time in the Y.M.C.A. Hut, a place one finds in every camp all over the place or near the trenches.

Left the billet at 1 pm and arriving at Boulogne about 4 p.m.

Leaving the boat we were marched to the notorious "one blanket Hill" which is situation at the top of a long and steep hill a considerable distance out side the city.

Dec 7th. Thurs.
Out of bed at 6.30. a.m. Breakfast 8.15 told to march off 1.30 for train. False alarm at 9.30. Formed up along with the lot going to La.Gorgue.

No carriages for us to travel in this trip. Had to make ourselves as comfortable as possible in goods waggons in which we had to travel for 12 hours. A crowd of chaps from the R.N.A.S. kept things lively a bit for us. Some of them had a few drinks, so of course, one knows what that means.

Dec 8th. Frid.
Landed at La Gorgue at 1 o’clock in the morning. Walked up from La Gorgue siding and reached our C.C.S. at 2 a.m.

Told to parade before Col Dick. He asked me if I had had a


[Page 106]
good time, if I had spent all my money and a few other such questions which amused me.

It is awful to have been on leave and then to come back to this kind of work especially.

Dec 9th. Sat.
Someone had spread the rumour that I had been married when away on leave. This was the first question that I was asked, but no one could be more surprised than I was to hear of it.

The College boys seem to have gone mad on the "Bones" as play things just now.

Sister Geogahan has taken the place of Sister Cameron in the operating theatre.

Things have changed considerably since I went on leave.

The boys used to work so as to allow one another off every alternate afternoon, now they have to do white washing of the walls of the building on their off afternoon. They naturally are not half kicking against it

During the time I was on leave instructions were issued to the men on what they will have to do if it should happen that the village was bombarded, a thing that is expected to happen any day now.

Dec 13th. Wednesday.

We have no good surgeons with us at present.

We are having plenty of operating at present. New Surgeons when


[Page 107]
they come here, look for work where it is unnecessary. They have no consideration of the staff. Once the operation or operations are finished they drop work but the staff have to go on and on cleaning up and preparing for the next

To-night I was sitting in Madames having coffee when I was called out to go to an op. One never feels free on this job because one never knows the minute they may be called upon to do work and if there is the slightest hitch with regard to anything required for the operation, it upsets the whole affair.

Dec 19th. Tues

A slight fall of snow to-night.

Dec 20th. Wed.
The first anniversary of the evacuation of Gallipoli.

Heavy bombardments by our Artillery to-night. The vibration of the guns firing rattled the windows of the houses almost to breaking point.

As I was walking along the road to Sailly an old Frenchman shouted over to me when the sound report of a gun was heard near by "Bon Jour, Allemand" or in English "Good Day German" the one heard the whiz of some heavy missile cutting through the air on its way to bid the Germans "Good day" in a fashion which they do not like.

Sent unit Xmas Cards away to friends.

A number of wooden houses


[Page 108]
are being built along the road side and are principly occupied by refugees, Belgian etc. They have read tiled roofs and are nearly all carried on as Estaminets.

Dec 21st. Thurs.
Our Xmas Dinner arrangements have been practically spoilt by the Col interfering.

In our mess room at dinner to-day the col. addressed us regarding Xmas Celebrations. In the midst of his address (he) someone coughed in a rather sarcastic fashion. I thought the Col would have gone crook on the soldier but he only turned round and remarked that "That was a very dry cough".

Dec 22nd. Fri
A specialist did an operation on a chap’s spine to-day but if this is a specimen of his kind of work then I do not want to see any more of it.

Dec 24th. Sun.
A fine day. No Gas.

The canal has overflowed its banks and the fields on the banks of the canal are flooded.

There is great jollity amongst the troops this evening. Xmas Eve only comes once a year and it is a good job to. Drunks and would be drunks are causing a great rumpus. Little Susanne says that all soldiers get drunk on Xmas eve. She says it was the same last year and


[Page 109]
some Scottish soldiers who were at her home last Xmas got so drunk that they slipped below the table and remained there all night.

Got a good box from Aus. R. Cross. containing Pipe, Tobacco, Cig, Sweets, Notepaper, Pencil, etc.

Dec 25th. Mon
Xmas Day.

Special breakfast, Porridge, Bacon & Tomatoes.

Special Dinner at the Saint Sebastian Estaminet for which we had to subscribe 5F.

After dinner we had our photo taken.

A special dinner was also provided for the patients in hospital

A Good Concert was held in the evening.

A rowdy mob in camp to-night. On the whole a most enjoyable Xmas Day.

Dec 26th. Tues.
Most of the chaps are feeling a bit off after yesterday jollifications.

I wish we had a better surgeon to work for. The one we have at present is so slow and not proficient at his work, Lt Col. S.

Dec 28th. Thurs.
The day very dull and cold.

Went down to the Laundry along with the Motor Transport. A great many French girls of the rougher class work there.

It is the "wee small hours of the morning before we get to bed nowadays


[Page 110]
Dec 31st. Sunday Hogmanay

Some of the chaps are a bit rowdy owing to being tipsy. Two got up on a box and delighted us with a stump speech on the "War". On the whole a very quiet Hogmanay.

Jan 1st. Mon.
The tipsy mob came into our hut at midnight and wished us a happy New Year.

A good deal of annoyance is being caused by the lack of Gas for sterilizing purposes. We have got an electric plant installed in our C.C.S. We are now making our own electricity and the light is very good.

N.Z. troops are in and around the village at present, Fritz got on to our troops as they were changing over to-night and as a result we had a big rush of wounded.

Jan 2nd. Tues.
Had just got to bed this evening when we were called out to the O.T. There were four big operations on and after having worked all day we had to go on all night in the steaming hot theatre which was laden with fumes from aether and chloroform and we only had a drink of water all night. The surgeons had a respite but we had none.

Sister G. collapsed under the strain.

Jan 3rd. Wed.

[Page 111]
Sat down at breakfast and went to sleep eating my food so tired and fagged out was I.

Jan 4th. Thursday.

The O.T. at one time was considered a place sacred to us but our new inefficient Lt Col Surgeon has turned it into a boxing saloon.

The place is kept very clean by us everything being polished up to the nines but to use it for a boxing saloon is over the odds.

Jan 6th. Sat.
The roads are very muddy.

Jan 7th. Sun
A great deal of bombardment during the early morning.

Jan 10th. Wed
Cold, Dull, Wet. There is an appreciable difference in the length of daylight that we are having. The scene in our dug-out of a night, after we have all got safely to bed, when the sound of a motor ambulance is heard is rather humorous. "Is it a dressing room case, or an O.T. case?", if neither everyone breathes a sigh of relief.

Went round by Doulieu & Steinwerck roads. Terrific bombardment going on. The flashes from the cannon lighted up the pitch darkness for miles around.

Jan 14th. Sun.
Snow covers the ground.

Went to Noeux Les Mines with the Football team in a Motor Transport, via La Gorgue, L’estrem, Bethune. The latter place is


[Page 112]
is a fairly large town which has a number of houses which have been destroyed by the Germen guns a week or two ago. Noeux Les Mines seems to be a coal mining centre, a big number of the houses etc have also been destroyed. It is only a mile or two from the "line".

The team which our unit team played was the 2nd. Tunnelling Corps, the latter team winning. They have a splendid Mess Room accommodation. It is a tunnelling corps but they can show the A.M.C. unit how to look after their men.

This village had ninty bombs from aeroplanes dropped into it one night not so long ago.

Singing and jollity ended the day except for a occasional member vomiting his inside out having indulged as usual too much beer.

Reached back to the C.C.S. a 7 o’clock.

Jan 18th. Thurs.
We are to have one hours saluting drill per week.

Jan 19th. Fri
On sick parade.

Off duty with Tonsolitis. Made myself as comfortable as possible in my hut do not want to go into hospital.

Jan 20th. Sat.
A good deal of heavy bombardment during the night.

Read a very good book entitled "Eclipse or Empire".

Jan 22nd Mon

[Page 113]
On duty not feeling too good.

Taking particular notice of the sunsets at the present time they all typically represented in the pictures that I have bought and sent home.

Jan 27th.

Have had to do all our sterilizing with Primus Stoves, a bit of a nuisance indeed.

An Anti Air craft shell case dropped only four yards from our hut burying itself about five feet in the ground. Another one dropped about a hundred yards from here.

Jan 31st. Wed.
A French woman was operated on for mammalary trouble

Feb 3rd. Sat.
Parade, Parade, Parade, all day long. The Sgt Major likes to hear the sound of his own voice.

The afternoons off duty are being completely spoilt by him.

Exceedingly cold to-day.

Feb 4th. Sun.
Germans sent over some Gas shells along with some Shrapnel, so we got a big number of Gas cases in to-day.

Feb 7th. Wed.
We all now having a quinine parade. We all march up to the Dispensary and get a quinine pill. Very few of them are swallowed, however. This quinine is taken to prevent the cold.

Had a Lecture to-night on the effects and kinds of Gas Poisoning. The latest kind of Gas does not show its effects till a few


[Page 114]
hours after it has been breathed into the system.

If the patient survives for 48 hours after he has partaken of this gas he usually recovers. To my mind the use of this gas in warfare is a cowardly game.

The only treatment that one can give is rest and quietness, wipe away any fluid or mucus from the mouth and the administration of Oxygen

Feb 8th. Thurs.
Great activity in the air on both sides at present.

Feb 9 Fri.
Two Taubes which were up very high had a very rough reception. Hundreds of Anti-Air Craft Shells were sent up in the air after them

One of them seemed to be brought down but judging from his position he would probably drop into his own lines.

Rumour has it that all the Sisters attached to us are to go away.

Went out to Merville with W. I. As we were walking along the road we noticed a cat hanging up in a tree. It looked as if it had been after a bird but getting intangled amongst the branches it had practically hanged itself.

Lecture on "Wounds and how to dress them".

Feb 10th. Sat
Three new sisters have arrived here this afternoon.

Feb 12th. Mon
Went to Hazebrouck in Motor


[Page 115]
Amb for Medical Stores. Had a tyre burst on the way. Had to spend a few hours in the town waiting on the car coming back from St Omer. On our way we passed two graves in a field, all the mark that they had was a wooden cross. We often come across isolated graves such as these. They were men who had been killed in the early stages of the war.

Feb 15th Thurs.
A touch of spring about the air

There is a heavy bombardment going on. The sound of these guns have a peculiar noise.

Battalions of British troops are on the move between here and Steinwerck.

One can tell that they are new arrivals by their spick and span appearance. They wont be long here before they will lose all that.

They are young men in the pink of condition.

Rumours of something doing up the "line" to-night.

Feb 16th. Friday.

Sir.D Haig has made the statement that the German line is to be broken at several place and his cavalry are to be ready to turn defeat into victory.

The shells are whizzing through the air.

Owing to the thaw the roads are very bad.

Feb 18 Sun.
Plenty of bombardment.

Feb 21 Wed

[Page 116]
A big raid which had been premeditated for some time came off last nigh. Eight hundred N.Z ders went over last night and caused considerable damage and capturing eighty prisoners.

We had over a hundred brought in wounded including 13 Germans. Some of them were very badly wounded. One of them had his intestines hanging out of his body. The men seem to be quite jubilant over their starring experiences last night, at least the slightly wounded are.

March 2nd

The peasants are busily ploughing and preparing their land.

March 5th.

Snowing to-day.

Took a walk with W. I out to Sailly. Parts of the road has to be screened because the enemy can see troops and transports passing at these parts and shell them at favourable opportunities.

There are two pretty large cemeterys at this place One is full of graves of Scottish & English soldiers and the other is an Anzac graveyard only having been opened since the Anzacs took over this part of the line. It is pretty well full up already in spite of the fact that the Anzacs have only been here about ten months.

March 6th. Tuesday

Concert held in the Convalescent


[Page 117]
Ward. Ward crowded. A very good show. The officers of the unit came in for the skits.

March 7th. Wed.
Equinoctial winds. Very cold. Two operations to-night both hopeless cases.

It breaks one up very much to realize after all the care and endeavor to save the wounded man, he dies. However as the French people say "C’est la guerre".

Rumour very persistent that we are going to leave here.

March 8th. Thurs.
Attempted transfusion of blood.

Told to keep two operating theatres in readiness.

Col Shaw is using a paste called B.I.P. This to my mind is causing more injury that anything else.

The cases being brought down in the Amb are not very well looked after, and I have no doubt are the cause of a few deaths from exposure.

The R.C. padre whom we have with us at the present time is said to have been mentioned in dispatches. To look at him, he is such a small weakly looking chap that one would not take him to be capable of gaining any distinction. It is the general comment amongst the boys that the R.C’s and the Presb padres have all been jolly good fellow but none of the C of Es that we have had have been up


[Page 118]
to much.

This long irregular sort of job in the O.T. amongst blood and mud is getting on my nerves. If this is war I never hope to see any more of it.

March 19th. Mon.
Real cold March winds.

J. D. in our hut has contracted measles. We are all isolated as regards food but we have still got to continue working in the D.R. and O.T. so that is all their quarantine business as far as we are concerned. Of course it is the old cry where there is some work to be done "We are indispensible".

March 21st. Tues.
The smell of gas gangrene from some of the wounded who come in is something awful. I sometimes think that the Germans poison their shells, at least I have not seen a German wounded yet who had gas gangrene, and as far as I can learn very few have.

March 23rd., 24th. Sat.
The news from the Somme district has been splendid this week. Germans have been driven back over a front of 50 miles.

The French also have been having good success. Our Cavalry are said to be in action. Some cavalry are stationed in Estaires

March 25 Sun.

[Page 119]
I had often noticed a peculiar sign where three roads met and a small square was fenced off. I learned to-day that eleven of the villagers had been made to dig their own graves at this spot two years ago and then they were shot by the Germans.

March 29th. Wed.
Cycled to Steinwerck.

Got my photo taken in Kilts.

It has been twelve and one o’clock every night lately before D and I have got to bed (lately) 

Potatoes have been knocked off our diet list as they can’t be got.

Portugese have taken over the part of the line at Laventie. I am not much impressed with them.

April 4th Wed. 5th. Thursday.

Plenty of operations lately It was seven o’clock in the morning before we got to bed, having been working all night long.

Read a prophecy that the war is to end on the 28th of August 1917.

April 8th. Sun.
Left the hospital to go up to the front line of trenches near Laventie.

On our way up to the trenches past Laventie, the Germens seemed to have the main roadway well sighted with their guns as there were hundreds of


[Page 120]
shell holes peppering the fields on either side of the road way. Screens were placed over the roadway to prevent Fritz from seeing any troops passing up Scarcely a farmhouse near this road was in a habitable condition. Nothing but bare walls was the rule

We made our way off the main road in by the narrow communication trench. Near by was a cemetery mostly contained soldiers of Scottish Regiments. In some places the trenches were knee deep of mud so much so that we thought we had gone off our track.

We were encouraged by B.— who had been here before, to go on

Sometimes I stuck so fast in the mud that it was with difficulty that I extricated myself. At some places the path made by duckboards was very good. At other places we had to wade through deep water. At these parts some of the duck boards were loose at one end, with the result, that, immediately you put your foot on the board, up the board went and down into the water you slide, muttering a few choice phrases.

However there was some consolation as regards the water as it help to wash 
away part of the selection which had gathered on our


[Page 121]
boots. After wading our way out and in, out and in, and passing through such well known streets such as the "Strand, Fleet Street, Drury Lane etc" we reached the supports. Dugouts where the supporting troops rested and waited in readiness in case of attack.

Outside one of the dug-outs was chained a very small china dog. Placed amongst such surrounding it contrasted very much with the grimness of the place and made one smile even here.

We ultimately reached the front line of trenches. Getting into one of the bays we met two Tommies who let us have a look through a periscope. Through it we could see the barbed wire entanglements and away in the distance a village. (Aubers)

The Germans front line is situated at this point about 250 yds away.

Behind this front line there were numerous graves of soldiers. The land round about was terribly hacked about by the bursting of shells.

It was at this point the Australians first went over, near Fleurbaix, on the 19th July and which ended so disastrously for them on that occasion. In spite of the fact that everything was desolation around there were still a few birds could be seen flitting about.

After having a good look


[Page 122]
round we made our way back through the communication trench onto the main road again, with our boots soaking wet, and leggings covered with mud.

Landing into Laventie again we had a good repast of coffee and eggs which sent us on our way rejoicing, to walk back to Estaires, three miles away

April 9th. Mon
The Village in Fête, Easter Monday
O.T. changed into the Hut in order to have the O.T. proper, whitewashed.

April 11th Wed
Owing to a raid being on we were kept very busy. I am not feeling too good. Have not got energy for anything.

April 13th. Friday.

Everything in the C.C.S. in a hubbub. General House Surgeon General to A.I.F. is to inspect us to-day. We made everything look spick and span but the "General" only put his head inside the door as the saying is and went away again.

Poor old Col D. very disappointed that more notice was not taken of the place.

Heavy shower of Hailstones.

Capt Owen has left for another unit, what a relief!

I feel sick of the whole


[Page 123]
affair. A change of occupation would do me the world of good.

April 14th. Sat.
What a mixture, Snow Rain and sunshine.

April 15th. Sun.
On duty all night again

April 17th. Tues.
The "wee small hours of the morning again."

Good news from the Arras sector and also at the part where the British and French lines join, down in the Somme.

We have just got our C.C.S. into splendid condition and now we have word that we are likely to move very shortly.

April 18th.

Walking out into the country this afternoon I saw a Frenchman trimming the hedges surrounding a farmhouse. He ingeniously avoided cutting the tall stems but instead he bent them across diagonally and intertwined them with the branches, this went to form a strong fence, and looks well when kept neat and trim.

April 25th. Wed.
Anzac Day. Church Service was held in the convalescent ward. This occasion was also taken to celebrate a "Drunk Day". The men who celebrated this day most, were men who never had been on Anzac. Fools!

April 28th. Sat.

[Page 124]
A few shells have been sent into La Gorgue by Fritz. Sisters warned to be ready at a minutes notice. Names of patients taken

April 29th. Sun.
More shelling of La Gorgue. They seem to be after the Railway Station as they put a shell right through the Goods Shed there. Most of the other shells have fallen on vacant ground.

April 30th. Mon
The weather has been simply ideal these last few days.

Since we evacuated our patients we have not been receiving any in. We have also had to hand in our Kit Bags to-day. We have got to carry our gear and it is only a very small quantity that we are allowed to have in our possession.

May 2nd. Wed.
There seems to be a big heavy gun over at La Gorgue sending some solid stuff in to Fritz. The sound of this gun firing is terrific

May 4th. Fri
Had a trip round in an Motor Lorry via Bec a Mor, Croix de Bec, Le Nieppe, Steinwerck, Doulieu.

Nieppe is badly knocked about especially the Church which is in the centre of the town with the houses and shop round about it. There are a number of windmills about this district.


[Page 125]
The swallows are flying about here these last few days.

The foliage of the trees are beautiful. The fruit trees and hedges are beginning to blossom.

May 5th. Sat.
A Taube dropped four bombs near La Gorgue.

May 8th. Tues.
Walked along the canal banks and then round by La Gorgue. The banks of the canal are simply alive with small frogs. Every few steps one took there would be half a dozen little yellow coloured frogs plonk into the water

Our artillery seem to be simply pouring shells into the enemy. Our present staff of officers do not seem to realize what the work of a C.C.S. is. They are trying to fix them (the patients) up as if they are in a General Hospital. This entails a great deal more labour on the already overworked staff. One would not mind if it were necessary, but it is not necessary.

May 10th. Thursday.

Have got orders to pack up the C.C.S. We are going to take over another college at Bailleul and run it as a C.C.S.

Had another trip round by Croix du Bec, Bec-a-Mor, Sailly. Saw some of the damage that Fritz had done a few days previously. Three women were killed in one house.

Bill D. our driver is a very good fellow but he is a bit reckless in driving.


[Page 126]
May 11th. Fri.
Still packing up. The C.C.S. is a wreck of its former self. Up to the time that we started to pack up we had turned the C.C.S. into a splendid place from spectacular point of view, then we got the order to pack up. It was the same of Anzac, the same at Serapeum in Egypt and it is the same in Estaires. We have toiled and toiled to get things into perfection and as soon as we got it almost perfect, orders would come through to pack up and move somewhere else.

May 12th. Sat
Plenty of Aerial Activity.

There is a tremendous amount of work entailed in shifting the gear of the C.C.S.

Les John. is making sure that every stick is shifted.

May 13th Sun.
A young French Girl has been shot just outside the village. She had just returned from church. She is said to have been shot by an English Sgt.

May 15th. Tues.
A Post Mortem was held on the Little French girl who was shot. The mark of the bullet was right over the heart. She was a girl sixteen years of age and very well built.

May 16th. Wed.
Met Major Fletcher who had just come up with a lot of Aussie troops from heavy


[Page 127]
fighting at Bullecourt. They had had a very strenuous time there and it had made a marked effect on him.

May 17th. Thurs

Had our O.T. all packed up on Motor Lorry. Left for Bailleul seated on an easy chair fixed high up on the back of the Motor Transport. As we left the Village we caused quite a stir as there were three men and a dog on the top of the car as well as me seated on the back.

On our way we passed battalions of Australians who had just come out of heavy fighting at Bullecourt. There seemed to me to be an extreme expression of sadness on all their faces.

Near Bailleul is greatly taken up with the growing of Hops.

May 22nd. Wed.
The C.C.S. making rapid strides to-wards completion.

Went to the Cinema to-night.

As there is a large Aerodrome just outside the town we have plenty of exhibitions in flying here.

May 23rd Thurs.
Walked out to Saint-Jans-Cappel and climbed Mount Noir, at the top of which is a windmill. Just a few yards from this windmill is the gate which marks the Frontier of France and of Belgium.

A magnificent view is to be seen from Mount Noir.


[Page 128]
The Mount is about 200ft high and the country from there for miles and miles is very flat. Away in the distance one could see the famous ruined town of Ypres and also Poperhinge with the beautiful green of the fields, the trees, the rivers, the red tiled cottages and an occasional windmill with its wings spinning around gave to the view a picturesque touch. One could also see away in the distance the flash of the firing of artillery amongst green clumps of trees.

Had a good look round the windmill. To look at these windmills have a very slim built appearance but they are not so when you inspect them thoroughly.

May 25 Frid.
There is a tremendous amount of Artillery passing through the town these last few nights. The town is also crowded with soldiers

May 26th. Sat.
Walked out to Meteren a pretty little village three miles from here.

This seems to be a sort of Headquarter village judging by the various Staff Officers which are here.

It was at this village that the Germans were turned back in 1914.

May 27th. Sun.
One of the Airmen came down to-day and was killed. One of his wings had


[Page 129]
come off.

As I was writing this note I heard the report of two shells bursting. Going outside I saw two flames in the sky and a few minutes afterwards two Balloon Observers were to be seen descending from their damaged balloon, in parachutes.

It was interesting and exciting to watch them descend, from a distance, as they dangled in the air swinging backwards and forwards gradually bringing themselves down to the ground.

May 31st. Thurs.
Walked out to Mont Des Cats. A pretty stiff climb up to the top of the Mont.

There is a large college and monastery at the top of this hill. At present the college part of this monastery is used as R.A.M.C. Hospital for Skin Diseases

One gets a beautiful view of the surrounding country, much the same as from Mont Noir. The windmill at the top of this hill is made of brick, a different type of windmill it is from the others.

Troops were being instructed in Machine Gunnery.

Witnessed an Aviator doing some marvellous turns and twists in his machine. 
There was also a hospital for Officers here and it was said that he was giving an exhibition for their benefit. One of the turns was a complete somersault on his side.

Returned back to hospital covered


[Page 130]
with dust. Had, as per usual, on these hot days travelling amongst I had a headache. Went on duty to-night in the O.T.

Tremendous traffic continues the whole night long through the streets of Bailleul. The only conclusion one could draw from the traffic which is being carried out is that there must be something doing. The traffic principly consists of British Artillery and Ammunition Wagons.

The civilians of Bailleul have been warned to leave the town or remain at their own risk.

June 1st. Frid.
A huge shell dropped and exploded just behind our C.C.S. this morning. It made a huge hole about 10ft deep and from 15 to 20ft in diameter.

A number of our Observation balloons have been brought down lately by the Germans.

Wrote letters in F for C which I am told has turned out pretty good.

Had another walk up to Mont Noir, along with a few other night duty chaps. Had our photo taken in the rear of the windmill.

Saw rather a peculiar shrine there. It was hewn out of solid rock.

There are a great many Artillery Lines, A.S.C. and A.V.C. wagons encamped on the hill side.

June 2nd. Sat.
Saw a few ‘planes which


[Page 131]
had three wings on them. They seem to be able to climb up in the air like climbing a steep hill. The other ‘planes have to mount up circling as they go but these ones seem to mount straight up.

Jun 4th. Mon
Took a walk by a circular route round by the village of Meteren. Expected to be transferred to the Dressing room staff but the S. Specialist would not allow it. A bit of a squabble. I desire to get on the D. Staff but others want to keep one on the O.T. Staff.

Early this morning, just at day break an enemy ‘plane dropped a bomb right on to an ammunition train which was lying at a railway siding, near the town. The train went up in flames. The vibration from the bursting of the ammunition was something terrific. Every few minutes explosion, shook the earth and buildings.

Interested in what was going on I went into the square. There one found scarcely a window whole, each vibration of bursting shell shook the houses and shop and smashed their windows causing glass to clatter all around.

Women and children were running across the square in a direction away from the disturbance

Children were hanging on to their mothers frock


[Page 132]
crying as they were dragged along, mothers had bundles of clothes in their arms, all that they could carry away from their homes. The sight was most pathetic. Others were a little more stolid, they walked away more calmly but they had a strained look on their faces.

Meeting in with S. Sgt M. we took a walk down the Lille road to be near to where the disaster was.

In an open space made for an entrance into a field we got a good view of the burning wagons. A thousand yards away columns of thick, black smoke mounted high into the air darkening the otherwise bright sky. Flames were licking up the wagons like the burning of a match box and from the exploding ammunition pieces of metal whizzed all around.

In the evening after the ammunition train had practically burned out we went down to see what remained of it.

The wagons had been utterly destroyed all that remain of them was a few twisted scarps of iron. Destroyed ammunition of all descriptions strewed the ground.

The bursting of shells had made two holes about thirty feet deep.

June 6th. Wed.
Tremendous rush of patients Going the whole day long.


[Page 133]
Everything in a turmoil

June 7th. Thurs

Repetition of previous day.

June 8th. Fri.
Repetition of previous day.

June 9th. Sat
Repetition of previous days, Something awful. A large number of German prisoners came in to-day.

Sir D. H. visited the C.C.S. to-day.

Reinforced by a large number of stretcher bearers.

June 10th. Sun.
Much quieter to-day. As a rule, when we see the Germen wounded prisoners brought in we know that the end of the "stunt" has come. They are usually left to the last.

To-day much of our time was taken up with preparing of dressings in case we should be rushed again.

It is said that the commencement of the Messines stunt which we have just past through was heralded by the blowing up of tremendous mine. The newspapers also say that the noise of it was heard over in England.

We were only a few miles from the scene of this explosion, but the sound of it never woke me up, so that I do not think the noise could be very great although there was certainly a very big mine blown up.

June 11th. Mon
Our aviators are marvellous. After coming over from reconnoitring the line and as they are about to land at the Aerodrome they


[Page 134]
give wonderful exhibitions of how they can control their machine. The turns and twists they make are magnificent

General Plumner, who was in command of the Messines stunt visited our C.C.S. to-day.

We were formed up on parade and he addressed the men complimenting them on the splendid work they had done during the Battle of Messines. General .P. does not look like a general. He is a grey headed wears an eye glass, so neat and clean that he looked as if he was only fit for a glass case. He is a wonderful general. I do not think anything could be more wonderful than the way he conducted this latest stunt.

Everything was as if it had been worked to a time table. During the battle some of the wounded had only been lying wounded two hours when they were in our C.C.S. and being operated on. One C.C.S. was seven miles away from the scene of the fighting.

June 13th. Wed.
Off duty to-day. Went a walk to Mount Noir along with little "Chick". The day very hot perspired freely.

In Bailleul square there is a large number of guns of all descriptions on exhibition. They had been captured by various battalions during Messines Battle.

I noticed one of them was marked to be sent to Parramata. It had been captured by an Australian battalion


[Page 135]
June 14th. Thurs.
Very busy day in the O.T.

Feeling a bit crook with Diarrhoea & ‘Flue.

June 15th. Fri 17th. Sun.
Been very quite lately

June 18th. Mon.
Very busy to-day.

June 19th. Tues.
Awoke early this morning. Five Taubes came over at five o’clock. Our Anti Air craft guns got on to them and sent them flying in all directions. Our triplanes went up after them and soon they were all lost to sight.

Chick, W, and myself went for a walk round some of the outlying village

June 22nd Fri.
Pretty busy, a number of very bad cases brought in to-day.

June 23rd. Sat.
Three of our Observation balloons were brought down by a German Aviator with his machine gun. A lucky bag for him.

June 24 Sun.
Two Taubes were brought down by our planes one at 4.45a.m and one at 10 a.m.

The latter looked a mere speck in the sky, and was flying rapidly away from our Anti Air craft shells. Suddenly it seemed to stop and fell just like a feather falling from the sky till it reached a few hundred feet from the ground. One expected every minute to hear the machine crash to the ground but it suddenly righted itself again and fell


[Page 136]
slowly to earth.

It is said that this machine fell into our aerodrome but before it could be captured, he mounted again, but I believe he had to come down near Poperhinge

It was marvelous to see how our ‘planes came from all directions when this plane fell. They seemed to hem him in on all sides and a few minutes previously we could only see the one ‘plane which was falling

We had a brass band from one of the battalions playing in our grounds for the benefit of the patients

The extra staff which we got attached to us for the Messines Stunt have been gradually leaving us lately, so much so that now they have nearly all departed.

June 29th.

Working long hours again.

On with Major McLure.

A very good concert to-night. A splendid Operating Theatre Sketch. Very funny.

June 30th. July 1st Sun.
Went out to Neuve Eglise with W.I. & C.B. Was at the 7th F.A. Being told that there are about 30 tanks in a field near here we set out to find them. After a good deal of wandering about we came across them in a wood. There was a guard over them and they were all covered with camouflage.

To look at them they gave one the impression of sleeping lions.


[Page 137]
In this wood there were numerous trenches which must have been made early in the campaign as they were all overgrown with foliage. In the distance we could see Messines ridge.

The village of Neuve Eglise is terribly smashed. There is scarcely a whole house in the place.

Were fortunate in getting a lift in Motor Transport both ways.

Fritz had apparently been trying to get on to Bailleul as just outside the town there were marks of recently dropt shells.

July 2nd. Mon.
A bomb was dropped in the "Rue Musee" just by the side of the C.C.S.

I thought our building was going to collapse. The vibration was something terrific

The pit, pit, pit, of the machine guns could be heard overhead. Our aeroplanes were chasing the bomber in the semi darkness He was flying very low.

An English Officer, a chap about twenty years of age, was brought into the Operating Theatre with his arm blown off from the socket as a result of the bomb which was dropped.

Apparently this bomb was meant to be dropped on the Officers Club as it dropped only about forty yards from there. Had it dropped on this Officers Club, it would have got


[Page 138]
a few as this club is always full.

July 4th. Wed.

Went round to the Rue Musee to see the damage by the bomb dropped the previous night

At the place where the bomb had dropped there was a deep hole which had penetrated through the stone blocks of the street. On either side of the street the houses were badly damaged and for a hundred yards up and down the street there was scarcely a whole pane of glass in the windows.

July 4th. Wed.
A bomb was dropped by an enemy ‘plane in amongst our tents at the back of the building.

We had heard the ‘plane buzzing about all night.

One of the sisters who was on night duty was slightly wounded on the shoulder. She was operated on but the Surgeon was unsuccessful in getting the small piece of metal. The piece of metal had apparently penetrated the lung.

[Note in left hand side margin side, written later:] This sister got the M.M. for this She was the first nurse to receive this honour.

July 6th. Fri.
Rumour that in our next stunt there are to be nine Operating Teams.

About 10 o’clock to-night the sound of numerous ‘planes was heard up in the air. They showered numerous lights of various colours apparently as signals to each other.

There is a great deal of traffic


[Page 139]
going through the streets to-night They are heavy artillery drawn by caterpillar engines

Heard the sound of Taubes up in the air to-night and soon afterwards the explosion of bombs were heard near by. This continued during the night. The night was beautiful and moonlight.

The ‘planes apparently are working in relays. One comes over, circles around, drops his bombs and off he goes and there is silence, shortly afterwards the faint buzz is heard again, then growing louder and louder till he appears to be just about our heads but no bombs were dropped on our heads. The bombs dropped were much heavier stuff that we have been used to, judging from the sound of the explosion.

As a result of Fritz’s perambulations an Officer and three chaps were brought in to the C.C.S. wounded. One of the chaps died before anything could be done for him.

The P.B. attached to us got quite a shock when Fritz came over last night.

After coming off duty this aftern morning four of us went out to town to see what damage had been done. A huge bomb had dropped in Rue de Lille causing a big hole in the street and damaging the houses on either side. Judging from the damage done there must have been a


[Page 140]
number of civilians killed

Those of the civilians who had remained in their homes seemed to find relief for their overcharged nerves in clearing away the debris which had been made by the explosion.

Looking inside some of the houses one could see that they were well furnished.

Numerous small groups of French people had gathered and were discussing things in a subdued and anxious tone.

We made our way to the Aerodrome. There we saw the debris of an aeroplane. This ‘plane had by some means or other dropped on to the roof of a small cottage in the endeavour to land at the Aerodrome. It had carried away the chimney and part of the roof of the cottage. None of the aviators were injured but the machine was like a huge umbrella which had been blown outside in by the wind.

We next went round to the R.N.A.S. Aerodrome and saw six Triplanes rise from the ground. They seem wonderful machines

Left C.G. at the Aerodrome, he being anxious to join the flying corps wanted some information on the matter as to examination to pass etc.

We walked along the railway, passed the siding where the ammunition train was blown up, till we reached No 11 C.C.S.


[Page 141]
The morning was beautiful, the sun was shining brightly with a tendency to be hot, a slight haze was on the hills, the birds are singing languidly amongst the thick green foliage of the trees, the growing crops and green pastures all helped to make the world beautiful to behold.

As I was walking along the railway I happened to turn round and there I saw glittering in the sun a few thousand white wooden crosses marking the spot of the burial place of as many men. Making enquiries at No 11 as to any damage being done during the night we were told that 28 men had been killed and sixty wounded by bombs that were dropped last night.

Going down to the part of the hospital where the bombs had dropped we found a terrible mess. It looked as if Fritz had dropped all his bombs more or less in the one spot huge holes marked the spot where bombs had dropped, men were busy cleaning away the debris.

Rather a strange thing was that the hospital was extra full owing to there not being any evacuation the previous day. The ambulance train had failed to turn up. Had it turned up all right most of those chaps who were killed or wounded would have been away down to the base


[Page 142]
out of the danger zone

On the road back to our station there were many large guns which were being drawn by caterpillar engines. They were hidden as much as possible by the border of trees which lined the roadway.

The probability is, that these are what Fritz was after when he dropped his bombs.

July 12th. Thurs.
A few shells dropped near the C.C.S. to-day. Blew some of the civilians to smithereens

July 13th. Fri
A few more shells sent over this morning. Stopped receiving until further notice.

One dropped in the middle of the street near the divisional baths and at the place where the Amb M Cars stand.

As W I and I were walking along the street we stopped to watch a quaint funeral which was passing, when suddenly the loud report of a heavy gun firing was heard. The women at the funeral ducked into a lane, as the whiz of the shell sounded overhead.

A few women were running along the streets and only stopped for a minute or two to make anxious inquiries as to the place where the shell had burst.

A bright spot in rather anxious time was to see a women who seemed to be a schoolmistress put her head out of the door of a house, and then immediately


[Page 143]
after she had withdrawn her head we saw about fifty children, all very young scurry down the street quite delighted at the shelling because they had got a day off from school.

They scattered down the street making for their homes laughing and joking as they went.

As we reached the square we saw men, women, and children running in all directions making for a place of safety. The shelter under the Hotel de ville was crowded with people. The gun which is sending over the shells must be on an armoured train. Sometimes the reports of the gun are very loud and then they get fainter and fainter which means, in some other town, further away the same scenes that we are witnessing here are being enacted some other place.

This evening W an I went to the Y.M.C.A. pictures. We had no sooner seated ourselves when .C. who was sitting behind us told me that they had been calling out my name in the picture house as I was wanted back at the station.

When I got back to the C.C.S. I found that I was leaving with an operating team to go to some other C.C.S.

After a good deal of running about getting things ready


[Page 144]
I found that we were not leaving till the next morning. Between one thing and another I was not in the best of humour, as per usual when excitement run high I had a severe headache. To add to it all I had not had much sleep, the weather was extremely hot and I had been inoculated in the afternoon, so that I was not in the best condition for long lours in the O.T. However C’est La guerre.

Sat 14th. July

During the night there was a great deal of aerial activity and, between the buzzing of the ‘planes, the bursting of the anti-air craft shells, the flashes of the numerous searchlights, searching the skies, there was not much sleep for us that night Luckily very few bombs dropped our way this night

Left for No 17 C.C.S. at Remy Siding near Poperhinge, this morning at 8 o’clock.

We quickly made our way along the road amidst a shower of rain and also thunder and lightning.

On duty there at 8 o’clock to-night. This being a British C.C.S. our quarters are very poor. In a crowded marquee amidst all sorts and conditions of men.

July 15th. Sun.
Operating up till three in the morning. Walked out to near Poperhinge. Plenty of shells are sent over this way.

July 16th. Tues.
Operating all day.


[Page 145]
Tucker is very poor in this C.C.S. We live like princes in our C.C.S. in comparison to this one.

July 21st. Sat.
Went to Poperhinge along with D. I. The place was crowded with troops. A nice place but badly knocked about by shells Big numbers of Observation balloons are in close touch here.

July 22nd. Sun.
Beautiful morning, shrapnel being sent into Pop to-day.

Very bust in O.T.

Five new teams arrived here to-day mostly Americans.

July 23rd. Mon.
There are four C.C.S.’s here and each takes it in turn to receive patients

The railway runs through between and troops, ammunition etc are continually going up and down here.

Heavy, continuous, bombardment is going every night now.

Got orders to return back to our unit to-day

Had a very pleasant stay here and incidently learned a few tips

These C.C.S.’s have been here for about two years. They have there grounds nicely laid out, growing flowers and vegetable on their spare land.

There is a great many wounded up in these part, heavy fighting is the rule, and Hospital trains go down here every day.

From Bailleul we get one view of Mount Des Cats and Mount Noir from Remy Siding we get the other view


[Page 146]
The wounded that are coming in here are mostly artillery.

Had to hang about all day waiting on the Amb to come and take us away.

July 24th. Tues.
Left Remy Siding in Motor Amb. Our unit had to move from Bailleul to outside at a place called Outersteen. We arrived there and found that we were going to occupy two large fields, as yet only a few tents were up.

July 25th Wed.
Working at putting up the hut for a Dressing Room. A great many infantry are working at the station making road, placing water pipes etc. Very wet weather we are having

July 24th. Thurs

Inoculated again. Knocked out a bit with it.

D. W. & myself visited a farmhouse and had some coffee. A fine big farmhouse it was, and, the eldest girl of a family of five, could speak and write English very well. She said she had studied the language at school, which means convent, for four years, and by coming in contact with the troops who were at times billeted in their fields she had managed to pick up the language so as to speak it fluently.

Pay day to-day, as usual a great deal of "silly" drunks

July 27th. Fri
Fixing up the acute Medical


[Page 147]
ward.

A terrific bombardment has continued night and day. This gives me the idea that the push which was expected to take place up north has been commenced.

July 30th. Sat.
W. I. and myself went to Hazebrouck to have our eyes examined by the Eye Specialist there. Having suffered from severe headache of late I thought if I got my eyes tested and glasses fixed I might be a little better.

We had to remain in hospital for a night. Got permission to go out and we had a good look at Hazebrouck.

July 31st. Mon
Slight astigmatism in my eyes. No glasses advised. It appears to me that you must be almost blind before they will give you glasses in the army.

Unfortunately market had finished at 12 o’clock so that we did not see the market in progress, but the square was lined with stalls selling every kind of household goods

Returned to the unit this afternoon. When we arrived we found the O.T. full of workers. Orders had been given to have the O.T. ready for the next morning, rather a big order when one sees that the roof is hardly on the hut Always the same in the army first things last


[Page 148]
last. The place was only partially finished the next day. I added my bit to the growling but it is no use. We set to work and did what we could. It was a heartbreaking job We had an O. Team from No 54 C.C.S.

Aug 3rd. Wed.
Wounded men came pouring in to-day. We had to work under the most awful disadvantages There are so many draughts in the place that we cannot keep the primus stoves going they are continually flaming up.

If there is such a thing as being annoyed on Active Service there is good grounds for being so in this place.

Aug 4th. Thurs

Things have slackened off a bit and we were able to re-arrange things. This latest rush was the most awful mix up of an affair that I have ever been in.

Additional staff has arrived from a R.A.M.C. from Hazebrouck The town had been bombarded the day after we left it and they had to close down their station

A very large number of Gas Cases arrived to-night. A new gas seems to be being used. Mustard Gas it is called, it burns the patient as well as acts on the lungs. It does not seem to act straight away. It acts a few hours after the patient has been affected

Our sleeping quarters are awful at present, they are crowded, chatty and green mouldy.


[Page 149]
Our station is situation amongst green fields surrounded by hop fields. The main road passes through between the two fields. We are only the matter of two hundred yards from the railway.

The surroundings are very pretty green fields, fields with their gradually ripening grain, hop fields with their high mast like arrangements and the dark green hop creepers climbing higher and higher. The birds chirping amongst the trees, the cattle browsing in the fields and the beautiful fresh air all go to make the place delightful to live amongst and counter balance to a certain extent the sights we witness in the C.C.S.

We are about two miles from Bailleul the town we had to leave owing to shell fire.

It is being shelled every day. Heavy stuff is being sent in presumably, aimed at the railway station but more often landing in fields or amongst civilian houses

This is an ideal place for the study of natural history. Wild flower, Insect Life, Pond Life are here in abundance.

Wasps are very prolific here. The jam on our table is full of them.

A funny incident happened to D I and myself yesterday. We were walking across a field on our way to the farmhouse We were admiring the pretty growths around a pond when suddenly one, two, three, up to a dozen


[Page 150]
frogs dived from the bank into the pond. It was just as if this had been a swimming match and the competitors were diving of the post automatically one after another.

On returning later we witnessed a repetition of the above.

Came across a poem translated by Longfellow which is very appropriate for the present time.

"Not thy councils, Not thy Kaisers, 
Win for thee the Worlds regard
But thy painter Albrecht Durer, and Hans Sacks thy cobbler bard."

Aug 8th. Tues.
Had a walk to Meteren this morning. Had coffee in a little house. They seemed a very nice family. The eldest, girl, the prettiest girl I have seen for a long time, can speak splendid English. She says that she learned it from the English troops who had passed through here time after time. This girl was a hand lace maker. It was very interest to watch her at work making it. It was a very slow process, tedious, and not much pay attached to it.

Aug 9th. Wed
We are not supposed to leave the grounds when off duty, but this did not prevent B & I from slipping out along the railway and walking to Outersteen had some coffee, getting back to C.C.S. without being noticed

A few taubes came over this morning early and we had quite an exciting time between


[Page 151]
Bombs, Anti Air Craft guns, and planes.

Aug 11th. Fri.
A large number of N.Z.A.M.C. arrived here from Hazebrouck. They had had to leave the town owing to shell fire.

An extra number of Observation Balloons about here this afternoon, this portends something doing.

It looks as if they are going to make our hospital an elaborate affair, but the accommodation for the staff is disgraceful

Aug 13th. Sun.
Complaints lodged regarding our quarters

Aug 14th. Mon
Changed into more commodious tents

Aug 15th Tues.
Went to Divisional Baths at Bailleul

The enemies ‘planes are paying us a visit every night. It is upsetting a bit for no lights are allowed when there is any signs of a ‘plane about.

Aug 16th. Wed.
More Rumours of Peace.

Two of our unit have left for Blighty. The French peasantry are busily harvesting just now.

A new form of recreation for us now, is to set out for a long walk, hail a motor transport, get a lift as far as they are going. By this means, and by mounting a few cars we travel long distances when we have spare time.

Before we left Bailleul I mentioned


[Page 152]
about the town being bombed and shelled. There is a wooden house been put up near the C.C.S. and the people who live in it are selling coffee. D. I. and myself went in there one day and they gave us a graphic description of what they had to suffer one night during the bombing raid.

A bomb had dropped a few yards from their home. The mother, who had heard the noise of the taube had just got up out of bed when the bomb dropped, and she got a wound in the neck from a splinter of metal and also lost the power of one of her arms. A man to whom the family had been speaking to a few minutes before was killed. A young married woman was also killed and her child was wounded in four places. This young married woman had only been separated from her husband for a few days, he having returned to the trenches. He returned four days afterwards to find her buried. He told the party who told me this story that he would kill himself and up to this time he has not been heard of since. Search has been made for him but all to no avail.

As I write this note Fritz is sending over our heads into Bailleul some heavy stuff and they are bursting with a loud report. We know what that means. Probably the above


[Page 153]
incident is being re-enacted, amongst some other family.

Sept 4th. Tues.
Had a magnificent view of an aerial battle.

Huge German Gotha attacked a small British Scout. It apparently had driven the scout from over the line The scout was no match for the huge German machine which swooped and mounted in its endeavour to gain suitable advantage over the scout. The scout dodge and dodged the Gotha successfully. They were just like a large seagull and a small wren attacking one another.

The pit, pit, pit of machine gun fire was heard continuously The fight took place only a hundred feet above our tents. Just when the Gotha seemed to have got full control of the fight he mounted up into air the majestically and soared away up into the heavens and was lost to view.

We stood and watch this fight, which meant life or death to the fighters, as if we were watching a football match and expecting every minute to see a goal scored. A goal scored in this case meant one of the planes dashing to the ground.

Bob Park paid us a visit to-day.

Sept 5th. Wed
Spent the evening over at the farm, hop picking. A severe thunderstorm took place to-night

Sept 7th. Fri

[Page 154]
Went over to the farm in the afternoon. Spent a very pleasant hour there. On our way two Fritzs came over and dropped a few aerial torpedoes. One dropped in the field next our station. Another dropped in amongst a Brass Band which was playing, killing a few and wounding others.

A French Belgian youth was brought in, terribly wounded. He died before anything could be done for him. His was a pathetic case as nearly all his fathers family had been wiped out by violence during the war. A brother & sister left out of six.

Hop picking is a very tedious job. The farmers can’t get employees to pick hops so they have to set to and do a bit themselves.

Very hot during the day but cool and dull in the evening.

The system which they have in the operating theatre is not good. It does not give the staff a fair chance.

Had a busy night in the O.T. Assisted at two abdominal Operations. One of these had been caused by a sentry putting a bayonet into a chap for not replying to a challenge. He had twelve perforations in his intestines

[Written at left hand side of entry:] This case turned out wonderful

Sept 8th. Sat.
Took a walk out to Steenje. Plenty of brambles, haws etc. The country is lovely. Autumn is spreading her golden stores and the lovely tints on the trees is something to remember.

Sept 9 Sun

[Page 155]
Sept 9th. Sun.
This being Sunday and a quiet day amongst the farm people Bill and I went over there to spend a few hours in the afternoon

We were shown all round the farm. The litter of young pigs especially being pointed out to us by the younger children Later we went into the garden to gather some fruit. While there we heard a sudden crash and looking round away about a hundred yards in the next field I could see the top of a plane as it toppled over.

Without a moments hesitation we bolted to the upturned ‘plane. Our excitement was so great, that, instead of opening the narrow gate into the field, a thing that would have been very easy to do we jumped right over it. The stupidity of our action in doing this struck even the slow minded servant of the farm, Emma, who spoke to us about it afterwards.

When we reached the ‘plane we found one of the aviators pinned underneath it and groaning considerably. The other chap, the observer, was lying about thirty feet away and unconscious. We lifted the machine, and cutting the strap which held the pilot in we freed him from his perilous position. He was bleeding profusedly but we learned afterwards that he had only a slight cut on


[Page 156]
his face. The other chap though unconscious was not very badly injured but he had a bullet through his foot.

It appears that they had been over Lille taking observation and of course had a rough time from Fritz’s Anti Air Craft, so much so that the observer got a piece of metal through the heel of his boot and right through his foot. While up in the ‘plane he had lost a good deal of blood and the pilot learning this and seeing our C.C.S. marked out with a huge Red Cross thought he would land near the hospital with his mate. In landing in the field, apparently his machine had tilted a little, the result was that the propeller caught in the ground and the machine turned a complete somersault, pinning the pilot underneath, and sending the observer through the air probably landing him on his head for when I found him he was breathing stentorously and unconscious

Sept 11th. Tues.
Met MacGill, another evidence of the original No 2 A.G.H. being all scattered over the country Sister R. the first sister that I worked with in the Army is working on our table in the O.T.

Sept 12th. Wed
A very busy night

Sept 13th. Thurs.
Spent very pleasant afternoon


[Page 157]
and evening at the farm. We were picking hops in the hop field and in the evening watched the girls as they milked the cows in the barn.

This family consists of the father, mother, five girls, Marie Louise, Germain, Jeanne, Martha, Agnes, and one son Louis. The father & mother have brought the children up to be very methodical, each have their bit to do on the farm, Marie Louise and Germain look after the cows, Jeanne looks after the poultry, Martha does the general running about and Agnes being very young, only being three years old, has not reach the age of work yet. Amongst the multitudinous duties that she does on the farm, Emma, who has been twenty four years in the family as a servant, she looks after the piggery

When there work on the farm is completed, at night time they all gather round the large table in the kitchen and do sewing crotchet work etc,. each having a little work box of their own. I admired the way that this family was brought up.

The father and mother seem very hard working people.

Another ‘plane came down in the field next the one that the other plane came down in.

Sept 14th Frid.
Another aeroplane fell this morning.

Went to Estaires this afternoon along with Bardsley.

Paid Madame Cuzet a visit


[Page 158]
and had a few moments pleasant conversation on old times

We have walked about 20 kilos to-day.

In the evening went over to the farm.

While there two Indians came for milk. They are a source of annoyance as they bring their own dish and they want the milk direct from the cow into their small dish.

Sept 16th. Sun
Decided not to go down to the farm for a long time.

Sept 19th.
A great many troops are on the move this seems to point to the persistent rumour being true that there is a big push going to happen shortly

Great Aerial Activity.

[Explanatory Notes:
pg. 5. A.O.D. Army Ordnance Department
pg. 5. Sudanese has been spelt Soudanese.
pg. 7. Tel-el-Kebir has been spelt Tel-el-Kibir.
pg. 7. Ismailia has been spelt Ismaelia.
pg. 10. E.P. Egyptian Pattern
pg. 10. C.C.S. Casualty Clearing Station
pg. 19. troopship Franconia has been spelt Franconian.
pg. 21. Tussum has been spelt Tussom. 
pg. 22. [Lake of] Timsah has been spelt Timnah.
pg. 23. V.A.D’s Voluntary Aid Detachment
pg. 24. Kursaal: public hall or room
pg. 24. Gezira Palace has been spelt Ghezirah Palace.
pg. 26. R.A.M.C. Royal Army Medical Corps
pg. 28. A.I.F. Australian Imperial Force
pg.28. R.F.A. Royal Field Artillery
pg. 28. R.H.A. Royal Horse Artillery
pg. 28. A.M.C. Army Medical Corps
pg. 28. [General] Birdwood’s 
pg. 31 Bramar Castle [Braemar]
pg. 31. A.G.H. Australian General Hospital
pg. 31. Marseille has been spelt Marseillaise.; at p.33. Marseilles.
pg. 32. Mediterranean has been spelt Mediterreanean.
pg. 34. Challons [Chalon-sur-Saone]
pg. 45. D.D.M.S. Deputy Director of Medical Services
pg. 36. Fontainebleau has been spelt Fountainebleau.
pg. 41. Seine has been spelt Sienne.
pg. 44. Zeppelin has been spelt Zepillen.
pg. 51. Sailly-sur-la-Lys has been spelt Sailly-sur-Lys.
pg. 57. Cuirassier has been spelt Cuirrusier.
pg. 61. Le Doulieu has been spelt Doulieu.
pg. 69. Alloa: Scottish Lowlands town
pg. 85. Steenwerck has been spelt Stenwerck.
pg. 88. Sailly-sur-la-Lys has been written as Sailly.
pg. 89. Steenvoorde has been spelt Steinvoorde.
pg. 98. empyema has been spelt Empyeama.
pg. 100. DMS: Director of Medical Services
pg. 105. R.N.A.S. Royal Naval Air Station
pg. 107. Allemande has been spelt Allemand.
pg. 111. Lestrem has been spelt L’estrem.
pg. 115. Steenwerck has been spelt Steinwerck.
pg. 119. Portuguese has been spelt Portugese.
pg. 122. "General House" is Major-General Sir Neville Howse, Surgeon-General to the A.I.F.
pg. 124. Croix du Bac has been spelt Croix de Bec.
pg. 127. Saint-Jans-Cappel has been written St Jans Cappel. 
pg. 127. Mont Noir has been written Mount Noir.
pg. 128. Poperinge (Belgium) has been spelt Poperhinge.
pg. 130. A.S.C. Army Service Corps
pg. 130. A.V.C. Army Veterinary Corps
pg. 134. General Plumer has been spelt General Plumner.
pg. 134. Parramatta has been spelt Parramata.
pg. 140. R.N.A.S. Royal Naval Air Station
pg. 150. Extract from a Poem titled "Nuremburg" by Henry Wandsworth Longfellow.]

[Transcribed by David Lambert, Paula Poropat for the State Library of New South Wales]
