Mitchell Library, State Library of New South Wales

Henry Joseph Parsons war diary, 1 June-2 September 1919
MLMSS 4600/2/3

[Page 1]
[Transcriber’s note: This is the third diary of Private Henry Joseph Parsons and covers his voyage home to Sydney on board the Leicestershire. His description of the journey begins in the northern part of the Indian Ocean, the ship’s arrival in Fremantle, then Adelaide and finally Melbourne where he disembarked and travelled by train through to Sydney Central Station. He writes of being met by family friends, arriving home and the Peace Celebrations in Sydney. He gains employment in September in the painting trade with Wintle & Wintle, contractors at Mosman Bay.]


[Page 3]

September 1919
H.J. Parsons
Part III


[Page 4]

[This pages contains three photographs.]


[Page 5]

Continued. 9/9/19 June 1919

Sunday June 1st 1919
To-day at 12 o’clock the ship stopped for a few minutes while we buried a Seargent who died yesterday. The burial service was conducted by Padre Finigan of the 4th Australian division. The Buglars blew the last post as the body was slipped into the sea.

This Seargent was badly gassed when in france, and was being Invalided home, but the heat in the Red Sea was too severe for him to pull through. As a rule, the men that have been gassed are taken home via the Cape of Good hope, as the heat that way is not nearly so severe as the Suez Canal Route, and therefore not so dangerous to their lives.

At about 3 p.m. this afternoon we crossed over the Equator, and the distance that we have travelled since leaving Colombo is 491 miles up to 12 noon.


[Page 6]

June
At noon on Monday the ships position was Latitude 2.44 degrees South and Longtitude 87.55 degrees East. The wind is strong and rather a heavy sea is running. No incident has happened on board that is worth mention.

On Tuesday the 3rd of June the ships position is Latitude 6.0 degrees South and 90.28 degrees East. The distance that we have travelled from 12 noon yesterday to 12 noon to-day is 245 miles. At about 7 o’clock in the evening I attended a lecture on Bolshevism by Mr. Slowman the Head Master of Sydney Grammer School.

The position of the Ship on Wednesday was Latitude 9 degrees 15 minutes South by Longtitude 93 degrees 07 minutes East. The wind has been blowing very strong all day. The distance that we have


[Page 8]

[See image for hand drawn map showing the course of the ship through the Indian Ocean from Ceylon to Fremantle.]


[Page 9]

June
travelled for the 24 hours is 253 miles.

On Thursday the wind was still fresh and the sea slightly rough. The distance we travelled ending at 12 noon was 250 miles. The Ships Position was Latitude 12°.32 South by Longtitude 95°.44 East.

Friday the 6th afternoon saw the wind die down a good deal, and it is now much more comfortable on deck. The weather is beginning to cool off a lot, now that we are nearing Australia. The Ship’s position at 12 noon was Latitude 18 degrees 57 minutes South by Longtitude 102 degrees 57 minutes East, and the distance we travelled for the 24 hours ending at 12 noon was 274 miles.

Toward evening it again blew up very rough and became quite cold. The sea began to rise considerably. The rain also came down in torrents which made sleeping on deck very uncomfortable, nevertheless a good many men slept there through the night. I did not attempt it my-


[Page 11]

June
self, but slept between decks. All through the night the sea continued to run high.

Saturday June 7th
The position of the ship at 12 noon was Latitude 22°.04 degrees South by Longtitude 104.51 degrees East and the distance travelled for the 24 hours was 236 miles. The wind and sea are still very heavy as a result of last nights severe storm.

Sunday morning when I came on deck I was surprised to find a clear sky and all the rain gone. The wind slackened down a lot. It had changed round from the South to a South Westerly quarter, and it is now blowing head on to the ship. All through the day the sea continued to run high which made the ship pitch and roll about a good deal. At noon when the ships position was taken (by means of instruments provided for


[Page 12]

June
the purpose) it was found that we had only travelled 256 miles as against 274 miles for the previous day, a difference of 36 miles which shows plainly that the sea was not too smooth. A Wireless message was received on board to-day (direct from Perth W.A.) to the effect, that all troops will be Qurantined for a short period when we reach Australian ports.

On Wednesday evening at dusk we arrived at Fremantle and anchored just out off the harbour entrance, as it was too late to enter that night.

Thursday June the 12th
This morning at 7 a.m. we weighed anchor and entered the harbour, and moored at wharf E in the Outer harbour at about 11 a.m. All the West Australians were got on shore after about an hour’s messing around. There was a fairly large crowd of men, women and children waiting on the wharf to welcome the boys home, and they were getting very


[Page 13]

June
impatient and annoyed with the time it took to get the boys off. After all the troops had disembarked we were allowed to go on shore for an hour or two before the ship sailed. We were not allowed to go out of Freemantle, so it did not take me long to see round the place, as it is only very small, there is about three fairly busy streets in the place. I walked about for a while and then returned to the ship.

At 4 p.m. we left the wharf and started on the voyage to Adelaide. Seven or Eight men missed the boat but it was entirely their own fault. They were clearly given to understand that the ship was leaving at 4 p.m. and that they were due back at 2.30.

A lot of men came aboard drunk and were fighting amongst themselves. One Officer made a


[Page 14]

June
great row, he wanted to fight everybody he came across, eventually another Officer came and took him away before he got into any trouble. How the men managed to get the Liquor, I don’t know, as all the hotels were closed. I suppose they got it on the quiet from men who carry it around and sell it in the streets. There is a lot of men who run Sly grog shops, and who do nothing else but sell bad whisky to the soldiers when they arrive. Judging by the way these men were fixed the Liquor must have been extra bad. A good many had the horrors.

On the 13th of June we rounded Cape Lewin in a rough sea and the wind blowing very strong from the South West.

On the 14th we entered the Great Australian Bight. The wind and sea is very rough. But fortunatly the seas are running the same


[Page 15]

June
way as we are going, as they do not make the ship roll as much as they would do if they were broadside on. As it is there is a great deal of movement in the ship.

June the 14th
To-day we are well into the Bight. The sea is in an awful turmoil. Breakers are comming right across the upper deck which is at least 20 feet above the calm water line. The wind is very strong and is lashing the waves into spray which blows right over the whole ship. The surface of the water is covered with white froth and foam.

Toward nightfall the wind died down but the ship is still rolling and pitching much more than it was yesterday. On deck is very uncomfortable and it is almost impossible to walk about the decks. They are slanting too


[Page 16]

June
much. Down between decks everything is wet and things are strewn about the floor. Plates, cutelry and kits as well as blankets and hammocks and lifebelts are all mixed up to-gether. It is impossible to keep things tidy as the movement of the ship rolls everything moveable into the centre of the deck.

The 16th of June was a beautiful sunny day, a vast improvement on the two proceeding days. A rather high swell is running the result of the late storm. I hope we do not get any more weather like the last two wild, wet and miserable days. Bad weather at sea makes everything and everybody cold, wet and miserable.

Our Position at noon was Latitude 55 degrees 31½ minutes South by Longtitude 131 degrees 11 minutes East which according to the chart is about three parts of the voyage across the


[Page 17]

June
Bight.

On the evening of the 17th of June we reached Adelaide and anchored just off from the entrance to the outer harbour. It is 10 o’clock at night and is too late to go inside. The harbour is too small for a boat as big as the Leicestershire to go in and turn about in the dark.

June the 18th 1919
This morning at about seven o’clock we weighed anchor & entered the Outer harbour where we were soon moored to the wharf & the disembarkation of the South Australians soon commenced, by 11 o’clock every South Australian was off the boat. In the afternoon were were allowed on shore within a mile of the ship, at 3 p.m. we were entertained to tea by the Y.M.C.A. who were assisted by the ladies of the V.A.D. At 5 p.m. we were allowed leave to Adelaide city, special free trains


[Page 19]

HOME AGAIN
Leicestershire Troops Landed.

The South Australian troops by the steamer Leicestershire were landed at the Outer Harbour at the expected time – 11 o’clock on Wednesday morning. As the special train from Adelaide to meet the vessel did not leave until 10.32 a.m. relatives travelling by that train were too late to witness the arrival of the vessel, and most of the men had landed. About 10 minutes after the disembarkation had started a tremendous cheer was sent up by the soldiers on board. The crowed opened up a passage way, and Mr. "Sammy" Lunn arrived beathlessly on the scene. He was the "important personage" who had received a greeting which was a record one coming from a visiting troopship. Led by Mr. Lunn the crowd which had then gathered returned the greeting. Lieut. A.B. Mortimer, the disembarkation officer, was assisted by Lieut. A. Mitchell and Staff Sgt. A.N. Gardiner, Sgt. W.J. Stephens boarded the vessel at the anchorage, and addressed the men on repatriation, Returned Soldiers’ Association, and army reserve. The War Duchess and the wharf were decorated with flags in honour of the soldiers’ return, and the Y.M.C.A. department, assisted by the ladies of the V.A.D. provided refreshments and "smokes" in the No. 1 shed. The South Australians were briefly welcomed by Major J.J. Hughes, A.P.M., on behalf of the State Commandant (Brig.-Gen. J.M. Antill, C.B., C.M.G.) owing to illness, the Mayor of Port Adelaide (Mr. R.H. Smith) was not present. Lieut. P. Buller represented the District Naval Officer (Capt. C.J. Clare, C.M.G.). Lieut. L.C. Colley commanded the military guard, and W.O. Guthrie was in charge of the naval men. Wharf leave was granted to the eastern State men, who to the number of 960 were entertained at tea by the Y.M.C.A. between 3.30 p.m. and 4 p.m. in the No. 1 shed, after which they listened to an enjoyable concert in the new Y.M.C.A. Hall at the harbour. Selections played on the wharf in the morning by the District Military Band under W.O. Stanley were greatly appreciated by the soldiers. The Semaphore Cheer-up Society distributed "Welcome home souvenirs", and also provided refreshments for the naval and military guards. The vessel, which is coaling, was expected to leave for Melbourne at a late hour on Wednesday evening or early on Thursday morning. Officers landed were:- Major T.R. Mellor, Capt. A.H. Fraser, Lieuts. W.H. Baker and G.C. Lewis, A.P. Stone, A.E. Pape, C.D. Gibb, C.A. Hewitt, P.J. Jackett, J.G. Sweeney. Imperial soldiers disembarked were:- J.B. McMillan, F. Sachery, S.A. Tucker, E. Atkins, W.J. Whelan, C. Baldwin and J. Messer. Extra men to arrive were:- 2137, Pte. A.F. Garrie; 3727, Pte. A. Matheson; 4930, Pte. T. Hooper; 2699, Pte. R. Williams; Lieuts. A.P. Stone and T.C. Stephens. Men who did not arrive were:- Lieut. C.S. Brown, Capt. G.W. Firman, Chaplain J. Lee, Lieut. W.H. Baker, 51822, Pte. F.P. Lamp; 53668, Pte. C.T. Marchant. The total of all ranks landed was 114.


[Page 20]

[See image for map of Australia showing the course of the ship from Fremantle to Adelaide and Melbourne.]


[Page 21]

were run for us, & we were given a complimentary ticket to the "Pav." Cinema Show. I walked up & down King-William St. & other parts of the town for a while & then went in to see the Pictures.

The last train back to the ship was 10.5 p.m. & we all had to catch this or miss the boat.

I was not able to see too much of the town nor could I form much of an opinion of what it is like generally, because it was too dark, and a person cannot see much the first night in a new city. One thing I did notice though, is the very wide streets & the wide Railway gauge – it is much wider than the N.S.W. gauge this being 5 ft. 2½ inches wide.

We are taking a little more coal on board here, all the cranes are going as hard as they can, we are expected to be leaving very late to night or early to-morrow morning.

On the 19th we steamed out of harbour at 7 a.m. At 12 noon were were well on our way with the South-Australian Coast on our port side quite close, we continued


[Page 22]

June
to keep the land in sight until towards evening, when it blew very hard & the sea began to swell so we had to put further out to sea for safety. By 10 p.m. it was frightfully rough & the ship was tossing & pitching a lot. The following day the sea had calmed down a lot but it is still very rough. At about noon we sighted the Coast of Victoria which we kept in sight until night.

At 2 a.m. we were all woke up by the sound of the ships syren. The noise caused a bit of a scramble among some of the men, who thought it was a signal to come up on deck with life belts on & stand at their boat stations. It turned out later to be the call for the Pilot to come out & take charge of the ship going through the rip & in the harbour.

It was rather rough going through the Rip, the ship rolled & creaked a good


[Page 23]

June
deal. It is the Pilot’s duty at all Australian harbours to come out to sea & Pilot the ship through the entrances to her anchorage.

We entered the heads of Port Phillip & anchored just inside opposite the Quarrantine Station.

June 21st 1919
At 9 o’clock the Quarrantine Authorities came aboard & inspected the ship & examined all the men to see if they had any signs of the "Flue" or any other disease amongst them. As no sign of any disease was discovered the ship was pronounced clean. At 10 a.m. we weighed anchor & proceeded up the Bay towards Melbourne, arriving at about 1 p.m. All the men are going to disembark at Melbourne. The Queenslanders are going off first, then the New-South Welshmen, & last of all the Victorians. The quota for Queensland & New-South-Wales are going overland to their destinations. Two trains will be waiting on the wharf for us when we arrive.

At 2 p.m. we disembarked from the steamer straight on to the waiting trains


[Page 24]

June
& we left shortly after.

Refreshments were served to us by the ladies of the Victorian V.A.D’s during the journey.

At Albury we had tea at 8 p.m. & then changed into the New South Wales trains. On the New-South-Wales Railway were allotted a sleeping berth each & I had a very comfortable bed.

We arrived at Moss Vale at 7 a.m. on the morning of the 22nd & had breakfast served to us on the Platform, soon after breakfast was finished we started on our journey once again arriving at Sydney at about 10 o’clock. The Victorian & New-South-Wales people gave us a very warm welcome at the different stations we stopped at.

From the Central Station Sydney, we were driven by motor to the Anzac Buffet in the Domain, where we were examined & if fit given our discharge. I was discharged straight away & given Leave from June the 22nd to July 30th.

On my arrival at the Buffet everybody that was in the place was


[Page 25]

June
singing out to me, or if everybody was not calling me it sounded very much like it, they were on all sides I did not know where to look, & felt properly lost. The first I saw was Allice Lewin, Lil Finigan & Gladys Albert. When I got inside I was met by Alma, Etta, Saidee, Wally Lewin & Esme. Outside the rest of my friends crowded around & on the trip home we were all in one Taxi-Cab about 15 of us, every where they could possibly poke a flag out of the car they had one. On arrival home the front of the house was hidden behing [behind] strings of flags of all sizes & shapes, & the house, ground, & gardens was all cleaned & polished up for the occasion.

For dinner Polly & Stan all the Lewins & ourselves were here. The dining room was adorned with flags of "Welcome Home" & colored streamers, & looked lovely. I spent my leave rather quietly, not going away at all & not taking any of the consissions that the Railway department allowed me. I had a free pass on all Government tramways during my leave. The only time I went


[Page 26]

July, August, September 1919
out for pure enjoyment was when the Peace Celebrations were on in Sydney.

All or most of the Public buildings & business places were lit up with electricity & they looked lovely. The Water & Sewerage buildings were in my opinion the best effect. All the Flags of the Allies was the design, & they were all lit with their natural colors.

During my Leave I bought a Camera & got a good deal of amusement out of Photographing people & objects.

On September 2nd I started work at the Painting trade with Wintle & Wintle Contractors of Mosman Bay. This is the first work I was able to get since the termination of my leave on July 30th. Just at that time work was very scarce about Sydney & there were thousands of Returned Soldiers on the unemployed list at the Repatriation Department. The Repatriation Department procured this job for me. I was just about one week on their roll & drew sustenance pay to the value of £500.

The end


[Page 30]

The Sun, 22nd September 1919

DESOLATION
The Silent Battlefields
Weeds and Barrenness
The Australian Cemeteries

("The Sun’s" Special Representative)

The following article was written by the Special Representative of "The Sun," Mr. Keith Murdoch, after a visit to the battlefields.

LONDON, Sunday Night
Not even a soldier can imagine the profoundness of the desolation brooding over the old battlefields to-day. The old spirit, the action, the energy the lusty strength of the youthful armies no longer temper the scenes of waste and destruction. All is emptiness, weediness, barrenness. Men’s strife seems to have rolled far away, and to have left here a vacuous and untenanted wilderness, already almost forgotten.

From Ypres to St. Quentin I travelled through a monotonous, weedy desolation, with the ghosts of cities and villages arising here and there like dumb sentinels of the dead.

At places this waste is 20 miles broad, and all along its fringes are far wider zones of semi-shattered places where the peasants are striving again to raise corn.

Amidst the shellholes and smashed redoubts the weeds grow in the middle zone thigh high. The rankest growths hide those old trenches and landmarks which the artillery had not already made unrecognisable amidst the tumbled earth.

Boche and Chinese Workers
The War Office has 200,9000 Germans and 85,000 Chinese under British officers clearing up the fields, collecting the rusty iron, the reddened barbed-wire, the old shells and rails. These men dynamite the German redoubts for steel girders. All our Passchendaele redoubts have gone this way, and now lie, jagged lumps of concrete, but the redoubts along the Menin road remain as memorials.

Messines is blown to fragments, in which the old villagers dig for hidden treasures, and the "chink, chink!" of the demolition parties’ tools resound across the wide valleys where we fought. Two garish shanty estaminets have been erected at the Messines cross-roads.

Mushroom Estaminets
These tin and timber estaminets spring up in many parts of the Belgian battlefields. You can drink Belgian beer or bad wine at the Zonnebeke crossroads or Broodseinde on sites truly red with Australian blood. The shanty hotels crowd each other at Ypres, near the Menin Gate, through which the stream of trippers passes, but on the French fields it is different. No soul stirs amidst the rubble of proud old Bailleul. There is life in Meteren again, but the dozen pioneers’ dwellings there bear such signs as "Coiffeur" and "Ironmonger", not "Beer".

The general rule along the front is where ground was not heavily shelled agriculture is beginning again. Elsewhere there is no sign, indeed, no hope of re-settlement yet, for every yard will have to be laboriously treated.

The Sadness of Passchendaele
The saddest scene of utter decay is that of the Passchendaele fields, where a few prisoner companies and a few Tommy grave-diggers are the only people visible in the wilderness.

Australian souvenirs can still be found – tattered uniforms in the Daisy and Dairy woods.

There are little crosses marking the graves. The nearest Australian grave to Paschendaele is that of Private A.E. Toll, of the 20th Battalion. I searched for signs of those brave men of the Ninth Brigade who got to the outlying houses of the village itself on that dreadful morning of October, but their fate will ever remain a mystery.

The Fifth Division’s memorial on Polygon Butte has a lonely and magnificent domination over the whole of the Ypres sepulchre.

The Acres of the Dead
The other divisional memorials are less advanced. Each is awaiting material for the obelisk. Not enough Australian bodies have been recovered at Villers-Bretonneux and in the Chuignes district for the cemetery at the foot of the Corps Memorial. This cemetery, therefore, has been filled up with other dead, representing all parts of the Empire. This graveyard work will last for five years at the present rate. The percentage of bodies recovered is proving small, but some day there will be many peaceful cemeteries with lines of headstones surrounding the central tablet. "Their name liveth for evermore".

The sights most impressive to an Australian along the front are the burst, black sandbags and trenches of Fleurbaix, our first, and perhaps most disastrous fighting-ground in France, and the neglected Bullecourt field, where the great Australian Army is represented only by a few discolored crosses, and even the saps of the trenches are lost in the general obliteration, decay, and weediness.

Traffic has been resumed on the Bellenglise-St. Quentin Canal and further north one can see our Decauville railways used for civilian purposes, with grandmothers under black umbrellas sitting in the trucks which not long ago carried our helmeted soldiers.

Sun, 28th Oct. 1919

WHERE THEY LIE
The Australian Dead
Battlefields Desolate and Empty in France and Flanders

(No. 1)
("The Sun’s" Special Representative)

To secure for our readers, and particularly for ex-soldiers, a series of impressions of the Australian battlefields as they are to-day, "The Sun’s" Special Representative has re-visited France and Flanders, and in his first article describes in broad outline the sacred places where lie our dead.

London, August 24.
Fifty thousand Australian dead lie within the weedy, desolate zone I have just traversed. Fifty thousand as true-hearted men, as bright and eager youths as any country has left in this vast cemetery of shattered life and promise.

They lie – where do they lie? Let the truth be known. With a very large percentage one can but wave one’s hand across a wilderness of broken earth, of thistles, and poppies, and rank high growth, and say, "They lie … there".

From Ypres to Amiens, from Passchendaele to St. Quentin, along the whole British front, I have found our graves, and visited too the little graveyards consecrated by padres’ prayers and services. But of 50 per cent of our dead there will never again be earthly trace. That is the lowest estimate I could get from any officers of the graves registration units, or any member of the Imperial Graves Commission. The percentage, I fear, will be much higher.

They lie where they fell, or where haggard comrades, amidst the ceaseless fury of the battle, buried them in trench or shell-hole; they lie unnamed, unmarked, unknown. I do not think they would have had it otherwise. For though the Australian soldier showed a tender care for every soldier’s grave within his lines, he wished for himself, if death should find him, to lie out his six feet where he fell.

Resting in Peace
Except for the Lens and Scarpe battlefields, where our men never fought, there is scarcely a square mile in the long, broad area of desolation in which the distinctive A.I.F. gravemark, with its white circle round the cross, is not to be found; sometimes in lonely isolation, sometimes in little patches marking a casualty clearing-station or an old battalion headquarters, sometimes in the profusion of a new military cemetery. Whenever it was possible, the Australian soldier marked his comrade’s burial place in this way. It says much for the Australian army that higher percentage of our dead is being accounted for than that of other armies. It says in particular two things – that we did not lose ground and with it the guardianship of the dead who won it; and that we carried back many dying and dead men from the other lines.

I have walked over deserted fields, such as Bullecourt. I have picked my way across overgrown trenches and the deeply pitted fields towards Riencourt, all tangled and twisted still with wire and the broken weapons of two armies in their prime; I have found the sunken pathway, which was an avenue of the dead, with our bodies heaped up on either side. And one outstanding impression has been the fewness of our crosses. But at Villers Brettoneux, I have stood on a mound, and seen more than a thousand Australian gravemarks within easy view.

As Messines and Wytschaete they are to be found nestling beside redoubts, and scattered down the hillside towards the river, and in two pretty cemeteries behind Hill 62 from which our first lines ventured forth. In the Passchendaele area they stand up in little groups, and meet the eye singly on every acre of that dreadful field. All is waste around them, and the spirit that broods over them is still sad and heavy-eyed. Stark realities of destruction and death weigh heavily on the mind.

But there is peacefulness now, and silence. The winds whisper through the thigh-high growths. There is no longer the dirge of shells, but rather a rustling as that of the leaves at home, or a chant like the ceaseless washing of the waters on some beach they loved well in Australia. They lie in peace, in perfect quiet, and gradually beauty will be evolved out of this chaos, and their resting-place will be lovely again with the pretty things that surround such a countryside as they and their prattling children would have made and love.

Little Graveyards
It is part of our national duty to them that we should find every body that can be traced and place it in one of the many new consecrated graveyards. It is only a tiny part of the great and endless debt we owe them, but a part so intimate and reverent that we should surely carry it through with exceeding thoroughness.

This work has only begun. There are 25,000 British soldiers, divided into some fifty companies, going laboriously over the battlefields seeking and removing bodies. I say it has only begun, because, though the fields have been clear of enemy troops for nine months, great areas have still to be searched. The visitor cannot escape disappointment that more energy is not being put into the task.

But the little graveyards are taking shape. Many are already closed with their quota of 900 or 1000 dead. They are flowerless, treeless. They are mere rows of newly broken earth with little temporary wooden crosses. But some day there will be tombstones and gardens, and little central buildings, and a large common six-sided cross and altar-stone, bearing the words, "Their Name Liveth for Evermore."

Five years must pass, say the officials, before all this can be completed. Then each man who has died will have his tombstone, whether his bones lie here or not. The arms of his fighting force will be on top, a cross carved beneath; there will be his soldier’s number, his full name, his rank, the dates of birth and death, the great words "Killed in Action," and room is left for his relatives to carve or stamp an epitaph or text, of not more than 63 letters, including spacings, in length.

There will be no dummy graves in these thousand cemeteries, but stones will be erected for those who died and have not been found. In the building or shelter complete records of the dead, with details of their death and names of next of kin, will be kept on parchment, so that those who come in future may know the story of brothers or sons who lie in these parts.

This part of the last duty will be executed by the Imperial Graves Commission, on which each part of the Empire has a representative. So far as possible the Australian tombstones will be provided from Australia. They may be either marble or concrete; it is believed the latter would have a better chance of standing through generations. Similar plans will be followed in Gallipoli and Palestine, with this difference, that in Gallipoli Australia has charge of the initial work of clearing up the battlefields, whereas elsewhere the British War Office is solely responsible.

Unless our authorities get to work at once there will be only one purely Australian cemetery in France. That is the "Adelaide Cemetery" on the Villers-Bretonneux-road near the old White chateau. It is planned now to make the graveyard at the base of the great Australian National Memorial on Hill 104 a mixed cemetery, because enough bodies have not been recovered in the area to have it distinctively Australian.

Those of our men who are working on memorials and cemeteries in France and Flanders are sad about this. They think we should have had our own cemeteries on such a costly battlefield as Passchendaele. There, near Polygon wood, I found British soldiers carrying Australian bodies three miles to be buried in the British cemetery at Wiltje.

The Unnamed Graves
Though in these scattered formal graveyards our tributes to the dead must necessarily be concentrated, a far wider area will for many generations of Australians possess a living interest.

In the little cemeteries, with their regular, even rows of headstones and their noble central crosses, will be the consecrated plots on which the nation can lavish its attention and express its sorrow. Mothers, maybe, will come to drop their tears; brothers will come, because perhaps he would have wished it. But in the larger spaces beyond and around there will be wider and freer habitations for the spirit of the A.I.F., which loved space and distance, and everything that was generous – nothing that was cabined and confined.

But these spaces are to-day very ugly, very depressing, very sad. So ugly and sorrowful that though I would not dare to say to any mother or brother "Do not come," I would say with full belief that it would be the dead soldier’s wish, "Wait a while".

The battlefields to-day are tumbled masses of ruins, wide tracts of desolate, overturned moorlands, on which high, stinging growths have sprung in place of the crops that once were there, and the white torn roads seem to wander aimlessly through a blighted and deserted land.

No one can cross them without catching the echo, though there is no sound, of a great sadness and deep grief.

Little wooden huts are rising here and there. The country folk come slowly back. Implements are arriving, work will soon begin, and the sights of battle will some day disappear.

I do not say "Wait till then," but it will surely be many months before the deep melancholy that broods here will have gone.

Such of the cable news on this page as is so headed appeared in "The Times" and is cabled to "The Sun" by special permission. It should be understood that the opinions given are not those of "The Times" unless expressly stated to be so.


[Page 31]

The Sun 30/10/19

WHERE THEY FOUGHT
Around Ypres and Passchendaele
Australian Landmarks

(No. 2)
("The Sun’s" Special Representative)

LONDON, August 25.
The Australian soldier would think the battlefields to-day extraordinarily different from those scenes of mud and trouble in which he fought.

The old sounds have gone. An icecream seller shouts his wares in Ypres, at the Menin Gate. Belgian girls sell picture postcards to loud-voiced tourists in the old square. The"chink, chink" of the pickaxe is heard in the broken cellars of Messines, villagers are digging for their gold. The reaper is at work on some parts of the Amiens-St. Quentin battlefield, which was not much shelled. But on the great, wide stretches, an eerie silence is maintained.

Of course, the places are all recognisable. What Australian soldier could not find his way from Dickebush or Zonnebeke road to Westhoek? But the sights are all changed. There is neither mud nor good brown earth. There are wildernesses of weeds and stubby growths, trenches have fallen in, dugouts are dark with noisome caverns, hidden by vegetation; redoubts have been dynamited away.

The few inhabitants of the battlefields belong to four classes. Some civilians have come back. They have opened their mushroom estaminets and sell their bad beer and vin rouge; a small number is trying a little agriculture. The second class is the Tommy labor company. The company nowadays is a combination of veteran derelicts and lives in little white-washed tin huts on sites of old villages. All the vigorous and the young have gone home, and the old hands are taking a long, long time collecting scrap iron, blowing up pill-boxes for the steel girders in the concrete, and burning useless dumps. The third class is the Prisoners of War Company – the young German prisoner of pronounced physique and industry. The fourth is the Chow. He is as numerous as ever, is mixing violence with his laziness, and giving a lot of trouble to his British officers. The War Office will be glad to finish with the famous Chinese experiment.

Some Landmarks
All four classes are most plentiful in the Ypres salient. Yet if every human being there to-day were marched in column of fours along the Menin road, they would not number one twentieth of those who lie dead on that terrible ridge, nor one-fiftieth of those gallant men who tramp, tramp into battle echoed from the ruins of the old city.

The rubble of the old Ypres had a majesty, a beauty of its own in the days of battle. The Australian knew Ypres mostly as a stepping-stone on the long march into or from a fight. Engineers burrowed under the ramparts to make divisional headquarters. Battalions rested in the artillery barracks (save the name!) when they came out from Westhoek and Dairy Wood. I visited both these spots, so as to be able to tell you that the artillery barracks are a dirty, leaky, dishevelled ruins, and no shelter for man or beast, and the dugouts along the ramparts from Menin to Lille Gates are falling in and scattered with garbage and rats. Two pictures of dirt. But some readers will have known moments when these were convenient spots.

The ruins of the Cloth Hall and the Cathedral stand as they were. A few dried bones of glorious buildings. Grass is growing high amidst powdered bricks on acres where the fine old residences of wealthy Ypres used to stand. The Town Major has gone, and the Traffic Control is no more. The tourist is here in his stead. There are Cook’s parties, and Bruges parties, and Brussels parties, in all manner of vehicles. And the enterprising Belgian has made Ypres hideous in his quest of the tourists’ money. I counted ten estaminets, ugly iron and wooden barns, a great white double-story hotel, two gaudy restaurants, two tin shops … Will this be the new Ypres, in a place so hallowed?

The Ridge of Death
Vlammertinghe is battered as ever, but Popperinghe is repaired and gay. It is the farmers’ centre, and more, the centre for the little army of occupation in these parts. The little restaurant in the square beloved of our officer, is a bright place now. A German Prisoners’ orchestra comes along sometimes to play to the Tommies there, and the busy people have spent some of our money on a new painted verandah trimmed with shrubs in barrels. But I doubt if there ever is or will be such care-free gaiety as when the Australian subs and the English flying boys gathered round the old piano after dinner in the intervals of their offensives.

But away with such things. What mattered they? What mattered anything or any place except the bloody ridge, where the Germans were, and death beckoned, and veritable hell had to be gamely faced!

This ridge was the testing place, the arena of stark manhood – the grimmest battlefield, if the dead were laid out by the acre, of all the British front, perhaps of all the war. What variety of tense emotion, what depths of thought and feeling, were stirred here in victory and defeat, in struggle and labor, in stern and straining warfare wherein men were used to the last point of cracking and crumbling of tortured muscle and spirit. All that was local. It happened here. And was that all? No! The guns of Passchendaele sent their shot all round the world, the god of war played here on hearts all over the British Empire, all over Germany. It was as though, at each thrust and counter-thrust, a giant stone was tossed into a sea made up of the blood that had flown, and the ripples carried out to Australia, and washed there against the doorsteps of waiting mothers and fathers, of every home which had a boy in the Australian Corps.

But now the ridge is a mere wide slope of the drabbest monotony. Who could tell it had been compact of the emotions of scores of millions of human beings? Nothing is here, except a few thousand graves, a score of heaps of rubble that were villages and weeds.

You see a sea of green growth, from two to four feet high. But do not plunge into it. For it hides dishevelled fields, all furrows and holes, as uneven as an angry ocean. The duckboard tracks have gone, except in patches. Trenches have been washed and battered away. Redoubts are disappearing.

You can pass the big redoubt at the "Kink in the Road", where brigades had their headquarters in the last battle of Passchendaele. But do not peep inside. It is more unwholesome now than when shells were falling round and dead horses marked the road. The Anzac redoubt in front of Westhoek, carried with such dash and grave renown at dawn on September 26, has been dynamited. The redoubt near Abraham Heights, which was like a tiny island – with dead Germans lying round – on that day of disaster, October 12, lies broken in three pieces. Its girders have been salved. The Tenth Brigade staff, which worked inside, would not recognise it.

Passchendaele
The Ypres battlefield differed from others, in that the Australian soldier always knew what was ahead of him. He was climbing all the time, he was a stout and hard fighter, and after storming one ridge he was moved a bit to bring him face to face with another. He got a good general perspective of

[See image for photograph of Mr. J.F. Guthrie.)

Mr. J.F. Guthrie who has been selected by the National Campaign Council to contest one of the three Victorian Senate seats at the forthcoming elections. He is a farmer, stud stock breeder, and manager in Geelong for Messrs. Dalgety and Co., and is 47 years of age.

the ridges. Elsewhere he could only wonder what the world looked like on the other side of the German lines.

But the landmarks by which the Australian knew the ridges have gone. Passchendaele stood out, a pretty, straggling village. Now you can pass it without knowing that a village has stood there, for not one brick stands on another. The Zonnebeke ruins stand as they were; nothing could pound that pile of bricks much finer. I remember that glorious dawn when signal lights, worked from behind the church, announced its capture. Zonnebeke became an inferno of gas and flying metal, but it was difficult to avoid going through or near it during the remaining days of our Passchendaele battles, and many gallant Australians were killed round here.

Now it is the site of two estaminets. Beer waggons roll up once a week to replenish stocks. By the roadside near the church stands a drinking place, ambitiously bit for these parts – about the size of two railway carriages. You remember Zonnebeke chateau? Its owner lives in this mushroom house. He owned the village, and the sugar factory, and the farms round about. He is wealthy still, but Zonnebeke is Zonnebeke to him, so he has come back, though it is a desert. He refuses money from Australians for their beer. Did they not win back his village?

This curious craze for living on the site of former happiness I encountered on several battlefields. The owner of the lovely chateau of Hooge, with its pleasant grounds and woods and fountains, lives in a two-roomed iron house near his old garden. His home has been wiped off the earth. But he is happier here than elsewhere. At Riencourt I found an old couple who had levelled a little plot of ground, and planted vegetables. At Messines, people are building wooden homes.

One cannot forget for long that on Australian battlefields alone thousands of homes have disappeared. Constantly one comes across little knots of civilians. They may be just the old people, or a Belgian soldier and his wife and children, or some orphans or bereaved sisters. They are looking for what was their home. Sometimes they have left something to be dug for. But usually they look with hard, dry eyes on what was once their all in all; they wander listlessly amidst the rubble, as though stunned, they turn their backs, and with sad footsteps seek some brighter place.

(The next article of this series will appear to-morrow.)


[Page 32]

Sun 3/11/19

WHERE THEY FOUGHT
Silent Fields of Bullecourt
Relics of Australian Fights
Emptiness and Desolation

(No. 4)
("The Sun’s" Special Representative)

LONDON, August 19.
Those daily communiqués which called every reverse a victory and twisted disasters into triumphs have no more bitter commentary than the lonely field of Bullecourt. Here four of our divisions, together with many fine British battalions, battered their way a few hundred yards up a gentle slope – for nothing.

The corps had followed the Hindenburg retreat across wantonly devastated farm and orchard lands from Flers and Le Sars, through the ghost city at Bapaume, through dynamited villages and over little ridges to the Hindenburg line. Our men had had a pitiless winter on the Somme battlefield, with trench feet and trench sicknesses accounting for casualty lists as heavy as those of a normal offensive. Some fights in the pursuit were tough and costly.

In those days the thick wire in front of the Hindenburg line was like broad red bands stretching zig-zag across the hillside. But those forbidding, jagged barriers did not stop the Fourth Division, though no artillery cut passages through them, and the tanks that were to have rolled out a path got nowhere near them.

There are no recognisable signs to-day of that famous Fourth Division attack, except heaps of rusty iron that were once tanks. It is still the most compact cemetery of tanks in France. The monsters lie on their sides in shell holes, stand rocklike on the horizon wherever you turn, meet you unexpectedly in huge pits, partly overgrown, as you walk across the fields.

The wire has been pounded to nothing. The trenches are recognisable only by the dugout entrances. Someone – can it have been a relative wandering here? – has planted an Australian flag amongst the few graves at the railway embankment. But there is no distinctive mark of a truly brave action.

Australian Heroism
The six battalions of the Fourth Division which went out over the snow that morning had to come back. Enfiladed, battered by shells, with no supplies arriving across the bullet-swept field, they put their backs to the walls of their cul-de-sac and fought until few men had a bomb left, and some had no more cartridges. They faced complete encirclement. And to come back, as they did, with machine-guns playing upon them from right, left, and rear, was as gallant a deed as their advance.

It is so easy to forget, to make light now of such heroism. So easy to be content with pity, with a little hasty sorrow; so easy to glance over this field and see nothing. Yet this was the land where priceless lads, princes amongst the Australians of to-day, spilt their blood. These were the trenches against which 50,000 Australians had to storm, in an inferno of death and wounds, with souls and bodies reaching an apex of effort for their country, before the Hindenburg line was firmly ours.

Such an immensity of national effort, of high resolve and noble devotion, does not come in every generation’s history. Yet that it should have been here, round Bullecourt, is almost unbelievable. One is again puzzled by the barrenness, the emptiness, the weediness and the loneliness of the battlefield.

The Fourth Division was whisked away north to follow the Third into the battle of Messines. The Second, First, and Fifth Divisions, in that order, set out to break the Hindenburg Line. Great guns had come up, and the wire had been cut.

A railway embankment ran along our front, and here one still finds little Australian relics – tattered uniforms, broken rifles, the cave headquarters which shuddered under the German shelling. Our engineers did one of their most gallant battle works during the first hours of this prolonged, costly battle, digging a sap between the embankment and the first Hindenburg trench. Our men were the target for every German gun within range for the next three weeks, for we alone had advanced. The Germans made of this sap – our only path for supplies – a veritable line of death. And upon those Hindenburg trenches seized by the Australians, they turned an enormous weight of artillery.

The Forbidden Village
Bullecourt, which to-day is nothing but a signboard and a few broken concrete cellar emplacements, seemed to be a forbidden village until our Fifth Division, and particularly the 15th Brigade, going in late, completed the British hold upon it. Remembering the clouds of brick dust tossed above the smoke of our exploding shells, one wonders why there is no sign here now of those pretty brick houses, those red barns, that high-standing sugar factory, that once was here. But not a brick remains.

Bullecourt we took. But there was a forbidden village, and its shell still stands, 200 yards from our old outpost line. It is called Riencourt, and it is truly a village to-day, for three old couples have built shanties on the ruins, and flattened out some land, and planted some seed – the only people to be met for miles around. They have not gone down the dug-outs, they say, but they have found things – interesting things, helmets and pistols, and Australian tunics, and little piles of letters.

Our second wave was to have over-run Riencourt on that fateful day in early May, and a third wave – still the Fifth and Sixth Brigades – was to have gone far afield. But the Victorians, who went on from the Hindenburg Line, still lie out there beneath the village, and none will ever know how far they got, though all know that before they leapt forward they knew they would never come back, or see their own land again. Riencourt was not in British hands until the last days of the war.

The sunken road heading diagonally across the battlefield to Riencourt is yellow, sandy, neglected. The Germans had deep dug-outs in it – doubtless company headquarters. There are duckboards and isolated German graves. The roads about Noreuil, Lagnicourt and Vrau are much as we left them. Our corrugated iron shelter and little man-holes, made when we used them for our reserves, have not been touched. Shell-holes make them impassable. The shell-hole out of which Captain C.E.W. Bean stepped, as by a miracle, at the instant we thought he had perished amid the smoke and clatter of explosives, can be identified near the old aid posts.

The whole field is horribly empty, even of graves. Apart from a dozen neglected graves by the railway embankment, and the lonely crosses here and there in the long grass, the little military cemetery at Vaulx-Vraucourt, is all that I could see. The dead of twenty battalions are here, but the saddest sight is the group of new graves, rows of them, bearing the words, "an Unknown Australian Soldier."

Bapaume-Pozieres
Bapaume, which had stood for centuries, is making a bid for life. About a thousand French people are back there, though how they live is a mystery, for there is no cultivation, and battlefields yield nothing in the way of wealth. The old houses can never be rebuilt. A new township of tin shanties is arising, centred round the railway station. Beer and vermouth – bad stuff, the same bad dead level in every estaminet, but plenty of drinking shops from which to choose.

A few of our artillery officers lie in the Bapaume cemetery, which remains shattered, and in small part disgorged by shellfire. Our graves are well tended; some friends have been there. I came on a German officer’s grave in the deserted wilderness close to Grevillers, covered with fresh flowers, and wreaths of everlastings, and showing the marks of a woman’s trowel. Doubtless, some woman’s tears too, though it seemed impossible that a German woman could have got there. At Grevillers the ruins remain, and the old corps headquarters buildings are occupied by prisoners of war. Our Australian cemetery is where the casualty clearing stations used to be. For the first time since entering the Ypres area I saw a man with a plough.

Flers, Pozieres, Mouquet Farm – the old Somme field – is sheer dishevelled waste, more a lonely wilderness, because more broken, than the driest patch of saltbush country at home. At Pozieres the First Division’s memorial party has raised an Australian flag, and out of the tunnels of Mouquet Farm Australian bodies are still being carried. Some were found locked with Germans. The cemetery at Pozieres is stretching now far back from the road. Grass is high in the fields covering the white crosses of the scattered graves. But the British soldiers, busy at re-burying have many months of work in hand.

The next article in this series will appear on Wednesday.

WHERE THEY FOUGHT
The Ypres Ridges To-day
Silent and Inscrutable
Passchendaele Memories

(No. 5)
("The Sun’s" Special Representative)

LONDON, August 25
Not even on Gallipoli did Australia pour out her blood more generously than on these bleak hills of Passchendaele. All five divisions were full to overflowing when they went in here. They fought until exhausted.

That was the experience here of the whole British army, every division of which took its turn, time and again, in this cockpit. Few units of Haig’s force were spared the scorching. Some, like the Canadians, who have bought the ramparts of Ypres at the Menin Gate as a site for their national memorial, suffered here more than half their casualties.

Brave battalions marched in, and came out after a week or so, mere remnants, stunned and shocked by utter weariness and the horrors of battle. The mud was sometimes such that strong men, slipping with fatigue, were drowned in it. The artillery massed here brought such scourging by shell-fire, such waves and torrents of shells, that death came at all parts of the field. The sky became red with reflection, and the flickering lights of the guns were at times constant. For miles behind the lines, camps were shelled or bombed.

That happened on both sides. The visitor to the German side is impressed with the devastation marked out there. But one thing the Germans escaped – mud. They were driven back slowly on to comparatively fresh battle-ground. Our men suffered the fatigues of that little-known, but deeply-remembered, duty - the carrying up of all supplies through miles of sticky mud, so deep that to slip off the duckboard meant sinking waist-high in morass, whilst the shells thundered around.

A Fruitless Battle
Strategists have unsparingly condemned the Passchendaele battles. I have heard some of the most responsible statesmen in Britain refer to them as the prime British mistake. It brought changes in commands, and on Haig’s staff; but its worst effect was to shock the British army, which suffered hundreds of thousands of casualties, and was worn here so thin that the German breaks-through four months later should not have been surprising.

Standing at Broodseinde, which our Second Division took, one can survey the whole field. The slope is gradual, the total rise from Ypres being only a few hundred feet. The only things now standing above the level of the grounds are the Butte of Polygon Wood, that mysterious high mound of earth on which the Fifth Division is planting its memorial! a few redoubts; the ruins of Zonnebeke, and the new estaminets.

All else is deeply pitted earth, covered with weeds. Not an animal is to be seen. Scarcely a man. Transport has vanished. The iron, the battle breakage, are rusted and decayed. It is a wilderness – is it abandoned to desolation?

On all old battlefields one is oppressed, heavily, by the lifelessness, the emptiness, of the scene. Where life’s struggles had reached its intensest hours, where millions of young men, with spirits lifted to the pinnacle of hope and high enterprise, and feet slushing in the mud, had engaged in whirlwinds of action – here nothing now was left but abodes of the dead.

This feeling of barrenness is strongest on the Ypres Ridge, where one stands as though in mid-ocean, and looks across measureless wastes. The battles here were much compressed – compressed by failure. The British Empire won the ridge, by series of frightful hammer-strokes, time and again recoiling upon itself, time and again finding divisions consumed without the slightest gain. Having won it, in Britain’s obdurate way, it was found to be worth – nothing.

I went over the Australian lines of advance, and found it impossible to fit the scores of thousands of Diggers into the scene again. The contrast between the furious energies of battle and this weedy sepulchre is too great. But there are many familiar places.

The Fateful Wire of Bellevue
Bits of brown tape can be picked up on our starting lines, where men lay silently waiting for zero hour. Sometimes they waited under pitiless German barrages, such as that which took heavy toll of the First Division as they gathered for their second advance. I sought the deep narrow holes in which the clearer-headed, zealous platoon commanders had sheltered their men. But they are lost in the maze of pits.

The redoubts, each one of which cost some Australian section or platoon a supreme effort, lie demolished, mere shapeless blocks of concrete. Here and there a garish estaminet stands, with its flaxen-haired Belgian maids, where the cries of battle had once been savage and brave men had died in plenty.

Polygon Wood, where three of our divisions had the full shock of battle, and the Fifth Division did heroic things in repelling counter-attacks, and in advancing, has vanished. Scarcely a splinter of wood remains. The Butte of Polygon, around which the Fifteenth (Victorian) Brigade lost heavily of it best, has been straightened down and cleaned, as a piece of hallowed ground. Bodies are still being recovered from it, and the graves of the brave Colonel Scott and of an English colonel who (if I remember right) commanded one of our Fourteenth Brigade battalions that day, and was shot through the head whilst leading his men with revolver in hand, have been made beneath its shadows.

A strange survival of the storm is Snipers’ Tree. It is shorn of branches and foliage, and is dead. But the little platform stands upon it still. The German sniping round the Butte of Polygon was deadly. It cost us a battalion headquarters staff and many men. But the idea that it came from this tree must surely have been a delusion.

From Polygon Racecourse to Broodseinde, Australian remembrances are thick. There are broken rifles, clothing, the remains of trenches, and many sights that would move a heart of stone. The little tracks from Zonnebeke can be picked up, with here and there a broken length of duckboard.

Near Passchendaele I found a grave, a rough, discolored wooden cross marked merely, "5099, Pte. A.E. Toll, 20th Bn., A.I.F." Some men of the Ninth Brigade are believed to have died closer still to the goal, in a little house of which not even a stone can be found. But I could discover no other Australian mark, not even the piece of uniform which on these fields means so much.

Of fascinating interest are the redoubts of the Bellevue Spur, standing still intact, but shorn of that menacing sense of power and fastness which was so impressive in the October days of disaster. Thick belts of red lie in front of them – the fateful wire. Now torn, confused, tangled. Yorkshire, then Norfolk, then New Zealand brigades, were shattered here, in quick succession, whilst German machine-gunners, secure behind them, slew the Australians advancing on the flank. Then the fresh, overflowing Canadian corps came up to do the task which had been apportioned to a few battalions, ill-supported by artillery.

Farthermost Australians
The little river over which the New Zealanders had to climb, through a curtain of shrapnel, is not flooded to-day, nor is the advance, through a multitude of shellholes, as difficult as on that terrible day when men knew before they started through the morass towards the uncut wire that they had been ordered to do the impossible. Thistles and the rankest growths cover this memorable hill; there are a few rusty gravemarks; the inscrutable waste, the brooding silence, tell you nothing.

Over the ridge, at a point not quite as high as Passchendaele itself, but giving a glorious view of the Promised Land beyond, are three places whose names will bring a hush upon the soul of many Australian soldiers. They are Dairy Wood, Daisy Wood, and Malakoff Farm.

Here lie the Australians who got farthest into Belgium. Few crosses mark their resting-places. Theirs is one of the saddest yet most glorious stories of the A.I.F.

They were men of the 2nd Division. They had been twice over the top, and were lying on the edge of these woods when the rains and storms began. The difficulties of relief were great, and all the divisions were thin. Those in authority judged it best that these brigades should carry on, though battalions were down as low as a hundred fighting men, and the grind of heavy fighting, in wet and mud, with little food, and less sleep, and no warmth, had brought physical agony such as less great men could not have endured.

They had six days of this, and then the call came again, on the fateful October 12, and they flogged their stiffening muscles with the last whips of their invincible resolution, and dragged forward once more through the mud, the tree stumps, the splintering shells. The two woods were commanded by the shoulder of a hill on the right, where German machine-gunners were posted in great strength. Our artillery, disorganised by the collapse of the road communications, could not reach them. Our own shells fell sometimes among our own men.

That was a tragic day, for we lost many men of great heart and resolute character. The 6th Brigade, not dashingly, as of old, but with sheer tortured will-power, stormed Malakoff Farm, pass it – and were fired on from behind. Had it a tunnel, through which German machine-gunners dribbled in after we had passed? Or were the battalions too weak to supply mopping-up parties, and thus overlooked part of the German garrison? There is to-day no sign of a tunnel about the place.

The last posts of the 6th Brigade can be seen along the outer fringes of the woods. Little signs of this last Australian offensive in Belgium can be picked up.

During the next few bitterly cold and stormy nights the Australian forces were relieved. The fresh Canadians came. We moved back. The men did not know at the time, but they were not destined again to pour out their blood and strength in Flanders. Desperate fighting came, but the flow of battle had taken us far to the south.


[Page 34]

WAR MEMORIAL COMES TO SYDNEY

[See image for photograph]

The scene is Bullecourt, World War I. Tanks have already tried to break through the German wire, but have failed. Now the 4th Australian Division is attempting an impossible job.

This is one of the many displays which some 250,000 Australians see in the Australian War Memorial at Canberra each year.

But many thousands of other Australians are not able to visit Canberra. So now the memorial, on film, is coming to them.

The Memorial authorities will show a two and a half hour film programme at Sydney Town Hall on February 21 and 22 at 8 p.m. It will include "The Australian War Memorial", an excellent colour film produced recently by the Commonwealth Film Unit.


[Page 39]

[Back cover of diary]

[Transcriber's note: 
Fremantle – misspelt as Freemantle
Cape Leeuwin – misspelt as Cape Lewin]

[Transcribed by Judy Gimbert for the State Library of New South Wales]
