Mitchell Library, State Library of New South Wales

James McKenzie diary, 8 October 1914-4 July 1915
MLMSS 1985/Item 1

[Transcriber’s note. This is the first diary of James McKenzie, an Ambulance Assistant with the Army Medical Corps. The diary begins as he enlists in Sydney and describes his boat journey to Cairo via the Suez Canal. He describes visiting the Pyramids and his delight in visiting the bazaars and mosques in Cairo. His account of what happens in the hospital wards is not very expansive, but relates how amount of wounded or sick in the wards fluctuated.]


[Page 3]
Oct 8th 1914
to
July 4th 1915


[Page 4]
Oct 8th Saturday 1914. Sydney NSW

After a great deal of hesitation I decided to volunteer for Active Service, in the war against Germany and Austria. I had gone up to Victoria Barracks twice previously, but had turned away for reasons all my own, before finally submiting myself for Medical Examination.

Today passed the Medical Test and became attached to the Australian Army Medical Corps. After having taken the oath, I was told to report back on the Monday following.

Oct 10th Monday.

Reported at the Barracks. Supplied with a suit of dungarees and a white sun-hat. Marched out to the parade ground, dressed in the above, and put through some elementary drill.

Our sleeping quarters were in the large drill hall at the barracks. There we stayed for a fortnight. We were very fortunate with regard to our kit. We were provided with everything essential to Active Service conditions, three days after joining up.

After a fortnight’s stay in the baracks, a week of which I spent going to the Sydney Hospital for training, we went into Camp at Queen’s Park, Waverley as No 2 Australian General Hospital. It was a splendid camp and was more like a week-end camp for pleasure purposes than military purposes.

The work there was of a routine


[Page 5]
nature. The day’s work usually consisting of, Reveilie, 5.30, Parade 6.30, barefooted for physical exeercise, usually doubling round the Centennial Park, or, as a change, a little fatigue work picking up waste paper etc. in the vicinity of the camp.

Did fatigue work in the Officer’s mess for one week; 8 o’clock breakfast, which consisted of coffee, bread and jam with a chop or steak, which was eatable sometimes; 9.30 parade for stretches drill, 11.30 lecture, 1 o’clock dinner consisting of mutton, potatoes, vegetables and tea; 2.30 stretcher drill or tent pitching, 3.30 lecture, and as a change we were marched down to Bronte or to Coogee Beach for surf-bathing, which was delightful; 5 o’clock tea, which usually consisted of bread, jam and tea.

This formed the usual routine of camp life at Queen’s Park, with an occasional night’s picket duty. If we were attending hospital for training, we were free of all other duties.

It was very amusing to hear all the rumours that floated about regarding our departure to the Front. I had given up listening to these remours as they proved so very often imaginary stories. After the sinking of the German Raider "Emden" by the H.M.A.S. Sydney, things took a more definite turn, and the much discussed and long desired date was made known to


[Page 6]
us.

Nov. 24th

The S.S. "Kyarra" arrived in Sydney Harbour. We were busy to-day getting our gear on to the ship.

Nov 25th

During the time we were in camp we were inoculated against Typhoid twice, and also vacinated once against smallpox.

After having scrupluously cleaned the camp, we left in train cars in the afternoon, getting of at the Orient Whaarf. We were formed into messes of fourteen in number and then marched on to the ship.

There was a large number of people on the Quay, mostly ladies in gay attire. It formed a very animated scene to see the Karki-clad soldiers on the ship holding many coloured streamers on the one side and the ladies holding them at the other. We were well photographed by newspaper Photographers.

About 4 o’clock the gangway was lifted and the "Kyarra" slowly moved off from the quay.

The thought that occurred to me as we moved off was, "how many of us were likely to return"? Would we all return or would there be many left behind.

After bidding W. Izalt farewell and requesting him to send a telegram to George for me stating I had left, I made my way down so as to become acquainted with our quarters of the ship.

Nov 26th

Slept in a hammock. Rose feeling


[Page 7]
that there was something the matter with me. I soon realised that sea sickness had me in its grip. Had a few hours respite from it during the day, engaged in baggage carrying, thinking by this means to work of any liklihood of an attack of sickness again. All to no avail for I was barely done with that work when a more severe attack of sickness took hold of me. I got down below to our sleeping quarters and I felt so miserable and wretched that I could not fix up my hammock properly. A mate, the name of Middleton, assisted me to fix up the hammock. After it was fixed up we discovered that the hammock belonged to him and not to me and he was just about as helpless as myself with sea-sickness.

He took pity on me however, and assisting me into the hammock he quitely went below the table and slept there all night.

Nov 27th

Arose feeling much better, on duty as mess orderly. Received a letter from home which stated George Stevenson had been killed in France. Wrote a few letters home. Late in the evening we passed the "heads" near Melbourne. Slept up on deck this evening. There was a very strong breeze blowing but we were fortunate in having plenty of blankets.

Nov 28th Sat

When we awoke in the morning we had anchored near Port Melbourne.


[Page 8]
At 8 o’clock we gradually moved up the river Yarra Yarra.

When we got into the Quay a very amusing thing happened. A number of people had congregated, apparently anxious to see friends who were aboard. As the ship slowly moved into the quay these people made to get near the ship but all to no avail. They were stopped by the picket at the point of the bayonet. I noticed the picket were dressed in kilts. Even at the point of the bayonet, they tried to pass but the pickets were obstinate and the look of chagrin on the people and the merriment of the soldiers aboard were a peculiar contrast.

The members of the units from South Aust – and Victoria arrived on board. All is hubbub amongst them in getting their gear abroard.

In the afternoon we had leave from 2 o’clock till 12 midnight. Had to return to ship at 6 o’clock owing to having been picked for guard.

Making the most of the time we had in hand, we strolled along the principle streets of Melbourne. The streets of Melbourne are much wider than those of Sydney and they show off the large buildings to advantage and give the city a fine appearance.

We went into the Railway Station and bought a "Sydney Telegraph" for the previous day. On opening the newspaper we found a couple


[Page 9]
of large photographs, the "Kyalla" at the Orient Wharf and also as it sailed out of the harbour.

Got back in time to go on guard. Full pack up and marched to the guard room there to remain for 24 hours.

Nov 29th Sun.

A quiet day. Presbyterian Service was held on the Wharf and was attended by Sisters and by men.

Nov 30th Mon.

Relieved from guard. After a good deal of manoeuvering in order to avoid being put on fatigue work by the N.C.O. we managed to get leave. This we were justly entitled to. A few of us were marched to the city and dismissed to go our own way. .

After parading the streets for a short time we boarded the car for St. Kilda. This is a splendid run. We returned by another route. On our way back a (four) lady, I expect attracted by us being dressed in uniform got into conversation with us. She showed us a walking stick which she said had been made out of a piece of wood of Nelson’s ship. It also had a band near the handle with a figure of Nelson on it. She was a French lady and and she gave us an invitation to visit her as she had a large number of curios there. We could not accept the invitation, however.

We had dinner in Sargents’ and then went out with one of our party to a suburb called


[Page 10]
Richmond. In the evening we went to the "Tivoli". It was a [indecipherable] provoking entertainment. Arrived back to the ship about 12 o’clock.

Dec 1st Tues.

Doing fatigue work on the wharf shifting stores. Got leave at 5 o’clock. There is not any hope of getting either on or off the ship without a pass. The bayonet is fixed and pointed at everyone, officer and private alike until the pass is examined.

Went to the "Royal Theatre". The piece which was entitled the "Yellow Ticket" was a play of very great power.

Dec 2nd W.

Paraded for kit inspection. Had leave from about 1 o\clock. Walked along the banks of the Yarra Yarra for a bit.

Visited the Aquarium and spent a most interesting time there. There are many fine exhibits there and entertainments were going on at various places during the day.

Dec 3rd Th.

Fatigue work scrubbing and polishing in the Hospital on board the ship. Later, down the hold shifting tins full of biscuits. The place was dark and there was very little room to work. We had to double ourselves up to work. We were out of sight of the N.C.O,’s so had some jolly good fun.

Dec 4th F.

Put on to the Sanitary Squad for a week along with four others


[Page 11]
to look after the sanitary arrangements of the ship. Each unit to take a turn at this work.

Issued with Rubber Shoes and old leather belts.

Notice to the effect tha the "Kyarra" is to sail the next day, Saturday 2 o’clock.

Got leave and went into Melbourne for a final visit. We went to see the comedy "The Girl in the Taxi" and enjoyed it immensely.

Dec 6th Sat.

Early this moring the P.O. came down to our sleeping quarters and found a large number of the men in hammocks after Reveilie" had sounded, half an hour previously.

He went upstairs in a rage and ordered the bugler to sound the "fall In". The result was a large number failed to put in an appearance. Those who turned up were taken out for a march. Those who did not turn up were paraded before the O.G. and given a word of comfort.

Some of them discovered that they were put on extra picket, later, and put it down as a punishment for being late. After dinner we paraded in full dress. Marched to the Royal Park and treated to drinks by the Officers. Got back to the ship about 5 o’clock and found a large number of people waiting to see the ship go out.

Moved off from the wharf at a quarter past six. The send off was partially spoilt owing to the people being kept off the wharf.


[Page 12]
until the gainway was raised. Cinemtograph operators were present.

I enjoyed my time in Melbourne very well. I like the kind of people there. They to my mind are very like the people of the Old Country.

Received a letter from George this evening.

Dec 6th Sunday.

Rose this morning feeling very sick. Lay on deck nearly all day. Attempted to take any food at meal time. No sooner had I partaken of any food, than I had to make a bee-line upstairs and empty it over the side of the ship again.

Dec. 7th M.

A repetition of the previous day.

Dec 8th Tu.

Feeling in splendid form this morning. S.F. then a lecture by one of the M.O.s.

Spent the remainder of my time reading, "The Magic of Love" by Annie Swan. A very stiring story. Everyone seems to have recovered from there sea-sickness. Entertaining times are given by amateur musicians of which there are a few and good sport is also given by boxing bouts amongst the men. At least the onlookers enjoy it.

Dec 9th Wednesday.

Physical drill on deck 6.30 this moring. S.F. lecture 2 o’clock. Speculations as to the time we are likely to arrive in Fremantle. The general opinion is Friday night.


[Page 13]
Dec 10th Th.

Feeling well, mess orderly today. Instruction in Fire Drill and Accidents to the ship. Lecture 2.30. Pay of one shilling per day. Remainder at the end of the voyage.

Sighted land about 1 o’clock today. For the last 24 hours we travelled 295 miles. At 12 o’clock we were 396 miles from Fremantle. Finished reading "A Human Face" by Silas Hocking. A splendid story. Wrote a letter to G. this evening. A rollicking entertainment was given this morning by two sets of four boxers. They boxed blindfolded. Roars of laughter emanated from the onlookers at the antics of the boxers. Some of the onlookers came in for a few blows unexpectedly.

Dec. 11th F.

Wrote a letter home in order to catch the mail at Fremantle.

Rain fell all day.

Arrived at Fremantle about 9 o’clock this evening. A beautiful starry night. Ship attached to a buoy in the harbour. It was fine to see the lights flickering in the darkness as we neared the town.

Dec 12th Sat.

Beautiful morning. The "Kyarra" is being coaled from both sides of the ship as we stand in the middle of the harbour.

Leave only granted if in charge of N.C.O. Got leave at 4 o’clock. Took train from Fremantle to Perth, a distance of about 12 miles. Took 40 minutes to travel that distance. Had a walk around town


[Page 14]
with T. After having tea we walked up to the Kings Park. The Park is situated very high up. We got a splendid view of the city of Perth and also of the Swan River. It was one of the finest sights I have ever seen. The Park covers a few miles of ground. There are beautiful drives in the park and a thing that enchances this appearance is the Red stones which is sprinkled over the surface of the road. There were a few beautiful monuments there also. One was in memory of a Governor of W.A., a statue to Queen Victoria, a momument to W.A. men who had been killed in the South African War, bronze tablets on the sides of it depicted scenes that happened during the war. We passed by the Observatory on our way back to town. We also passed a statue to one of the early explorers name Forest. The commemoration tablet was so obliterated that we could not learn the exact nature of the deeds done by him. Strolling along the streets again we made for the station arriving there not a moment too soon in order to catch the 9.30 train.

We had to wait on the wharf till the N.C.O. in charge of our party came back. Rain came down while we were waiting and we got thoroughly drenched before he arrived on board.

Sunday Dec 13th

Attended the St. John’s Episcopal Church this morning. The Archbishop of Perth was the preacher. Sailors


[Page 15]
on the one side of the aisle and Sisters and A.M.C. on the other made a very pretty scene.

Had leave at 1 o’clock. Meant to spend the day in Fremantle but meeting in with Stillman we took train for Perth.

Went into Perth Museum. It is one of the finest places of the kind that I have been in, it is a place of real educational value. One outstanding thing that made it so, was the manner in which the exhibits were placed. Instead of the birds or animals being placed in plain cases, they were place in natural surroundings. I saw the full value of this manner of doing things when I looked at the case of birds of my own native country. They seemed very real and lifelike. Went into the baths and had a swim. Took train to Queens Park, and then back again, out to Subiaco. I had a good conception of the size of the Kings Park as it extended out as far as this place. Left Perth at 9 o’clock having spent a very pleasant time.

Dec. 14th Monday.

S.F. Paraded infull dress on the wharf after dinner. Inspected by the Governor of W.A. He talked freely with the men who wore colours for other wars on their heart.

It was very uncertain whether we would leave Fremantle today or no. Large crowds of people were waiting at the wharf. A


[Page 16]
few of the stokers of the ship had gone off and got drunk. The Captain and other officers of the ship went out to look for them in motor cars. We saw a few of them being brought up the gangway in a more or less helpless condition. They were all brought back but one. A man of the sailor class was standing on the wharf with a few others. As the officer was about to pass him a few words passed between them and they both got into the motor car. The car hurried away and about ten minutes after returned with the new stoker carrying his kit bag. This scene greatly amused the onlookers who gave him a hearty cheer as he mounted the gangway.

About 7 o’clock the gangway was raised and we slowly moved away from the pier. There was a large crowd, we got a splendid send off and amidst great enthusiasm we sailed away.

The comment of the troops on board was that we had seen the last of Aust – for some time at least. Tonight is beautiful.

Dec 15th Tu. M.O. to G.

The ship sails with a bit list all to the one side which is not very safe looking. It is also rolling considerably. It is like walking a greasy pole at times getting along the deck.

Have read the "Tale of Two Cities" by Charles Dicken. Thoroughly delighted with the story.

A meeting of the men in order to form a Sports Committee tonight


[Page 17]
Dec 16th Wed.

No Fatigue Duty today. A concert on the Promenade deck tonight. Programme of the sports to be held on Saturday afternoon is up on orders. Boxing, Fencing, Crickets, Egg & Spoon, Potatoe race, Wheel Barrel Race, Chalking the Line.

Dec 17th Thu.

No water to wash ourselves with this moring.

M.O. & I scrubbing down stairs. Lecture 4 o’clock.

A Free and Easy concert held by the Tasmanian Unit on deck. Good musical talents amongst them. The chairman had an amusing manner of intimating the various items. He intimated the name of the song, the singer’s name and also the nick name he is known by amongst his mates. Instances of the humerous nick names were, the "Fatigue Dodger", the "Greasy Corporal" etc.

Dec. 18th Fri. Phy D. 7 am.

We are having beautiful weather just now.

A lantern lecture was to be held tonight. Owing to the failure of the apperatus to work the lecture was posponed.

Distance travelled today 290 miles.

Dec 19th Sat.

Large numbers of "flying fish" are flying about. They look very pretty.

Travelled 270 miles today.

Dec 20th Sun.

Divine Service 11 am.

Enjoyed the service very well.


[Page 18]
A Methodist Chaplain gave the address. The advice was simple and very hearty. Pass the Cocos Island at 12 o’clock today. It was near these islands that H.M.A.S. Sydney sank the German Raider "Emden".

These last few days have been exceedingly hot. There is a very sweaty smell about the troop deck. The lightest attire is being worn by the men. In spite of that fact still the perspiration comes pouring out of us.

The "flying Fish" about here seem to be much larger than the ones we previously have seen. On guard tonight. The nights are very cool and refreshing on deck. Down below where the troops sleep it is very, very hot.

Monday Dec 21st

When I was in these parts earlier in the year it was very cold. This time the weather is hot.

A notice is posted up to the office that "Father Neptune and his team" are to pay us a visit on Thursday at 2.30 in order to meet with new acquantance and to see old friends.

Travelled 233 miles today.

Lantern lecture by Col. Nash tonight. XRay slides showing the circulatory apperatus was very instructive to us.

Dec 22nd Tue. M.O.

Read "The Resurrection" by [indecipherable] Tolstoi. A splendid story treating of a very delicate subject.

Concert tonight.

Dec 23rd Wed. Phy. D.


[Page 19]
Kit inspection on the boat deck. At the request of the men, instead of meat being issued to us at every meal a supply of jam is to be given instead.

Sports today for the men. Had a headache which prevented me from taking any great interest in the sports.

A heavy wave came in through the port hole damaging a great deal of music which was lying on the table. A couple of wind sheets clashed on the floor also.

Dec 24th Thu.

Paraded along with thirty others to explain why I had lost two shirts. Explained that I had washed them, hung out to dry and they were "pinched" (stolen).

Father Neptune with his wife and train came on board the "Kyarra" at 2.30 this afternoon on the occasion of the "Kyarra" crossing the "line". They were all dressed up in grotesque fashion.

The new acquaintenance, that is, those who had not previously crossed the equator were introduced to "Father Neptune" and his lady. After the introduction ceremony the doctor took the temperature of the new acquaintance with a large wooden thermometor. According to his supposed temperature he was either treated to a dose of cold water or a dose of medicine. To all appearances the medicine was like spirits. The dose was no sooner partaken off then it was


[Page 20]
spued up again and the grimace of the patient showed it was not "Real Mountain Dew". It consisted of salt and water.

They were then put into the hands of the barber. Soaping them with tar they were shaved with a large wooden razor. Then suddenly the barbers assistants lifted him off the chair and threw him head first into a large canvas bath full of water. Sometimes the patient resisted and in the struggle pulled the assistants with them, causing roars of laughter. After the ceremony some of the Officers and Sisters threw apples and oranges into the bath. Large numbers of the men made to get these apples and oranges with the result that the canvas bath collapsed under the strain and the water flooded all over the deck. It was a splendid afternoons sport.

Dec 25th Fri. Xmas day

F.D. Service held, being on Duty I was not present. Duck and Plum Pudding for dinner today, cigarettes and pipe issued 100 miles south of Colombo at 12 o’clock today. Little books issued by the Y.M.C.A. very interesting.

A sign that we are reaching a port is the fact that large numbers of the troops are busy writing letters.

Dec 26th Sat.

Sighted land today at 2 o’clock


[Page 21]
It is fine to sight land after being a number of days away from it. Any rumour to the effect that land is in sight causes a great flutter of excitment and binoculars are produced. We were sailing into harbour just as the sun was setting. Away on the horizon we could see a ship outlined against the setting sun and it made an enchanting scene.

If there had been nothing else the yap, yap of the native boatmen who came along side the ship would have told us that we were in a foreign port.

We had not been in port more than a few minutes before the natives began to beg money etc. from us.

Newspapers of the 24th Dec. were being sold by natives on board the ship at 6p each. They contained startling news to us. One of the reports was that a raid had been made on England by the German Navy. Scarborough, Whitby and Hartlepool being the affected towns.

Felt quite lost owing to the lack of authentic news of the war.

Dec 27th Sun.

Had leave to go over to Colombo. This we did in small boats rowed by natives.

Went to the British India Hotel and had some light refreshments. We drove around the principal


[Page 22]
sights of the city. A few of the places we visited were the Victoria Gardens, Museum, a Buddist Temple, the Barracks, the native quarters, and on our way round we passed various bungalow buildings which were said to be clubs of the well-to-do. The sight that interested me most in my visit to Colombo was the native quarters. They are a strange medley of human nature, these people who live their. To see them in their little tumble-down shops or rather recesses open to the street and having for sale all kinds of unknown stuffs for food etc. was to our eyes very funny and very interesting. The buildings of the whole place had rather a dilappidated appearance. This applies to the native temples also.

The idea amongst the native priests seems to be to extract money from you, and all manner of dodges to this end are made. You have to take off your boots outside the door of the temple, a little boy will look after them for you, if you pay him. Another will do the same with your hat. There are various boxes for offerings and the priest is up to his work in getting the money out of you for these charities. Long practise with this faculty makes them experts at the game.

Having driven round this route when I was here a little over six months ago I knew there were some other places


[Page 23]
of interest to see. The driver refused to drive us the stipulated round. The same idea again, "more money wanted". On our threat to report him to the police he drove on. An extra sixpence on the way seemed to please him and he gave us an extra long drive.

Had dinner in B.I.H. Had a walk through the principal streets. One had not much peace in walking along these thoroughfares. We were continually pestered with natives calling to us, walking along side of us and all but carried into the shops by them.

Once in the shop it is not the lack of a persuasive manner on the part of the salesman if you

[Transcribers note: a Canbury Bournville wrapper has been inserted here, possibly as a book mark]

[Page 24]
come out of the shop without.buying anthing. They have a delightful manner with them. Bought two little ivory elephants charms.

As we walked along the streets during the afternoon wondering where we should go to next, we saw our cabman of the forenoon drive, eyeing us up and down.

He was lame and he hobbled over to us. He asked us in broken English to go with him to a Hindostan Temple, which was a good drive, so he said.

"How much" was the inevitable query from us. "Four shillings" he said. After a deal of bargaining we managed to bring the fare down to two shillings which we agreed to.


[Page 25]
It was a building situated in one of the most tumble down districts I had ever visited. The building was covered with images, but the figures were in the most filthy and disreputable condition imaginable.

They would not allow us to enter the Temple. The people seem to live in awe of their religion.

Dismissing our cabman in the middle of this quarter we took a walk along the narrow streets, the [indecipherable] of all eyes, and followed by a very large number of youngsters.

As we went on our way in this manner we heard a tremendous noise like that of a rowdy band banging with might and main on tin cans. Going along to where the noise was being made, and this was easily found by means of a large crowd of people in the middle of the street, we found the reason for this unearthly turmoil to be a native band. They were playing on very crudely made instruments which seemed to be as old as the hills. They could make a noise all night, but where the music came in I do not know.

This second visit to Colombo was very interesting and instructive. These narrow streets were simply teeming with black people. Where and how they exist one can only wonder.

Having had tea in the Arcade we then made our way to the pier. We sailed over to the "Kyerra" which


[Page 26]
lay a good way out and we just arrived at the gangway in time to escape a heavy shower of rain.

Others, who had left the pier a few minutes later had unpleasant experiences to themselves, but the onlookers had the time of their lives seeing the unfortunates coming aboard.

Their are some reckless men in our unit. One party upset their boat as they were about to step on the gangway. Luckily they all escaped with only a drenching in the water. How the native got on with his water-logged boat I do not know.

S.H.G. to-night.

Mon. Dec 28th

Correspondence home etc. Natives are busy round about the ship selling fruit, coconuts etc. and they are doing a roaring trade. They are very keen business men these natives fruitsellers. It takes a smart man to beat them.

It is glorious to stand and lean over the ship’s rail at night time. This night is very clear, the moon is shining brightly and appears to be straight above our heads.

Natives are busily engaged loading the ship with coal and filling its tanks with water. These natives here do not work as hard or make so much noise as those who fill the coal bunkers at Port Said.


[Page 27]
I notice that amongst those who had never seen a foreign shore before this time, talk very loundly on how they dealt with the native when he bought anything. Probably the native got the best of the bargain after all is said and done.

There are a very large number of jack-daws, both in the streets of Colombo and also in the harbour.

Dec 29th.

Had a few hours ashore this forenoon. Warned that all parties were to be aboard at 2 o’clock.

I had a very pleasant walk through the streets again. Brt. a few precious stones (?) moonstones are very lucky, so the native said from whom I brt. them. Brt. a copy of English Songs and Ballads from one of the biggest booksellers shops here. Strange to say a portrait of "Robbie Burns" graced the frontispiece. A nurse was taken aboard the ship on a stretcher suffering from sunstroke.

Going over to Colombo in a small boat was a most hair-raising experience. There was a fair breeze blowing and coupled with the unskilfulness of the boatsmen I really thought every minute we were going to be upset.

We had a slightly better experience on our return journey but I never felt safe until I set foot on board the ship again.


[Page 28]
This instance of the natives begging nature will help to illustrate the dodges they get up to. I happened to wash a few clothes and having dried them in the sun was taking them down when one of a number of natives who were loading bags of potatoes on to the ship came over to me and asked me for one of the articles. I refused him, however. Two hours later when I had almost forgotten the above incident he came over to me again. He chatted away in a humerous fashion in broken English for some time, then made reference to the clothes again. He said "that thing would do him". I retorted with "that thing would also do me". "Ah! he says "You go to London, you get plenty clothes". Instances of this kind are always cropping up.

(Travelled 267 miles). We left Colombo Harbour at 8 pm. Two searchlights kept sweeping the seas as we sailed out. At times they were fixed on our ship and lighted the deck up beautifully.

Dec 30th. Phy Ex & Kit Inspection.

Dec 31st M.O.

Passed the Laccadives Islands. According to the atlas they are a group of fourteen islands and have a population of 14,000. We were not very near them however, and to us they appeared to be only a mere outline except at the point of one there appeared to be a building which we took to be a lighthouse.

This being Hogmarney I was reflecting to-night where I was a year ago.


[Page 29]
I remember along with J. & B taking a walk up to the Steeple at home about midnight. To-night J is in Portland, B is in France and I am on the High Seas.

Dec. In spite of the fact that we were on a crowded ship and far out to sea, the "boys" determined to pass it in the old, old way. Some of them got basins, pails, etc. from, they only, know where and marching up and down banging at the things causing a terrible row and endeavouring to sing some of the popular songs above the noise. The noise they made just about excelled the noise of the native band in the streets of Colombo. It was pandermonium itself for an hour or two.

The officers and sisters had a fancy dress ball to-night amongst them-selves.

Jan 1st.

"A Happy New Year" was the first words of the boys on awakening this morning.

A "Daily Paper" is being published by some humorous members of the units. The Humorous and Sarcastic news, published in the paper, are splendid. It is a type-written and posted up for all to read.

There was a scarcity of water in the men’s Shower Baths. The complaint was report to O.O. and remedied.

A paragraph to this effect was put in the paper as follows

Meteorological Survey:- showery this morning in the


[Page 30]
Shower Bath.

Jan 2nd Phy Ex. G.

Mess arrangements for the Guard not very good. There are twenty four of us. Seated on the deck, diving into the food as best we can, we look more like poultry feeding than men. It is a case of each one peck for himself with the consequent appearance of a rabble.

One of the units had sports this afternoon. Great fun was caused by the pillow fight. The large canvas bath was half filled with water. A long thick pole was hung over it. This pole was made as slippery as possible by means of soft soap. On this the combatants had to sit facing one another each having a well filled pillow in his hand with which he had to knock his opponent over into the water. There was some fine sport created by this means.

263 miles to-day.

The Officers had a competition in ships hockey this afternoon.

Jan 3rd Sun.

Bad chops were issued for our breakfast this morning. The smell was something awful. Nearly every mess complained about them.

A burial service was held over some of it. These mess tins were carried in front and the boys marched up to the deck groaning as they went. One of the men gave a short address and another played the dead march in [indecipherable] . After these ceremonies had been conducted


[Page 31]
in mock fashion D.W. the bugler sounded the "last Post" and amid groans from the men the chops were consigned to the deep.

Read English Songs & Ballads.

270 miles to-day.

Church Parade, a Bright Service. Had a ration of "lime juice".

Jan 4th Phy Ex. F.

F. drawing up boxes of rotten potatoes. The smell from them was something awful and were tipped over the side of the ship.

283 miles today, 572 miles from Aden.

Passed two islands about six o’clock this evening. They rose like sheer masses of rock out of the sea to a great height and looked as level as a table top. Got our photo taken by one of the officers this evening Col. Sp..

Jan 6th Tue. Phy Ex

The coast of Africa was in sight when we rose this moring. The dawn breaks about 6 am. Read the "Kyarra Truth" this morning. It is becoming too personel and the editors may get into trouble if they are not careful. Met in with a chap from W.A. who previously belonged to Ayrshire. There are quite a number of Scotties on the ship.

Jan 6th Wed. M.O. F.

Paraded in full dress. Arrived at Aden between 3 and 4 in the afternoon. As we sailed up, the place gave me the impression of another Gibraltar. High rocky hills with nothing green growing on them. The sun


[Page 32]
setting behind the hills gave a view almost similar to the sunset behind the Grampians at home.

News has reached the ship that the H.M.S. Indomitable has gone down in the Mediterrean with 800 lives.

As I am writing this note an animated discussion is going on round the mess table. The subjects embracing immortality, Religion, the causes of the war, is the Kaiser responsible. Some are also eating bread and cheese and cold patties are also in plenty. We anchored well out from the shore. We had no sooner been anchored than a large number of small boats gathered round. The men in the boats began to sell cigarrettes, Turkish Delight, Ostrich Feathers and other luxuries. They did a roaring trade amongst those who had money to spend. Some of the troops were lamenting the fact that pay day had not arrived.

There were a number of ships anchored near the shore.

The question of the hour "where is our destination". Left Aden in the evening.

Jan 7th. Thu

Pay day. Received 10/-.

We have passed quite a number of ships to-day. One of them was an armoured merchantman said to be the "Empress of Russia".

Old Frank Chandler, a Belgian who is with us gave a number of the unit, sisters included, lessons in French. Not a success however.


[Page 33]
Jan 8th Fri. Phy Ex

Read a "Son of Erin" by Annie Swan, delighted with the story. Read "How he Died" and other poems by Fariel an Aus – poet. "How he died" is a beautiful piece.

Men appointed to their duties in the hospital.

Jan 9th Sat. Phy Ex. Kit Insp.

Read J. K. Lawson’s Songs and Humorous Verses. Very Good. Learned from some of the chaps who know him that he is a confirmed drunkcaard.

Experiencing very rough seas just now. We are in the Red Sea. Had a very instructive lecture "Hygiene on the March".

Jan 10th Sun. G.

Sighted the Daidalus Lighthouse. It is built on a rock which is hidden by the sea. Three P & O Steamers are said to have been sunk on this hidden rock before the lighthouse was built. The Keepers who were on it; went mad, it is so lonely. To obviate this a jetty was built so that the Keepers would be able to take exercises. One could see the jetty, but very indistinctly. Sighted land about dinner time. 275 miles to-day

Read Dr. Johnston and his Circle in M. K. Series. Very interesting. Very stormy all last night. Had to wear my overcoat whilst on guard. Rather a contrast to which I had previously thought and heard of the Red Sea.

Whiled away the weary hours on guard by studying the stars. Saw


[Page 34]
the Plough, Cassiopia, [indecipherable] Plieades, Orion, the night was so beautifully clear and starry.

Jan 11th Mon.
On going up on deck this morning, I witnessed a very pretty scene as the sun was rising just over the mountains on the Arabian side of the Gulf of Suez. The P & O steamer Malura passed close by us this morning. There is great jubilation amongst the troops as they expect to get letters by the mail which the Malura is carrying to Port Said.
Reached Port Suez 8 p.m.
The Suez Canal.
The town of Suez lies several miles from the entrance to the canal. A narrow strip of land from the dock forms a road across the lagoon.

After making preparations such as fixing the searchlights over the bows of the steamers, etc. we enter the canal, passing the large first station which has a statue of De Lesseps, its famous engineer.

The sandy desert stretches as far as the eye can reach. It is very peculiar and forms the main characteristic of the scenery along this wonderful and highly interesting engineering feat.

With a length of 87 miles, 20 yds in width and a depth of 25 ft the canal has 13 signalling stations all connected by telegraph and announcing the coming and going of the various steamers.


[Page 35]
At these stations, sidings made by widening the canal are placed so that vessels can pass one another. One of the vessels has to moor to the side till the other passes. Ships of War and Mail Boats fly the privilege flag and are allowed to pass first (a white P on a blue ground). Various signals to regulate the traffic are in operation. Speed limit 6 miles per hour.

The first stage of interest after leaving Suez with Mt. Attaka as a back ground (2700 ft) is the Bitter Lake in which the speed is increased to full beteen the stations Serapeum and Toussoum.

Then Ismailia on Lake Timsah which lies midway of the length of the canal.

A narrow gauge railway runs from Ismailia along the bank to Port Said. A railway also runs to Cairo.

After 17 miles of narrow canal and high sandy banks at Kantasah the famous crossing of the caravans and pilgrims to Mecca is passed. (Mecca is about half way down the Red Sea on the Arabian side.) Lake Minzalah with its flamingoes and wild fowl are located on the west side and passengers on ships will often on occasion see a mirage. Cairo has frequently been seen pictured upside down in the air, so also have ships etc.

The run through the canal takes from 15 to 17 hours.


[Page 36]
Jan 12th Tue

We entered the canal at 11am. It appears to me the same this time as the last, namely Fairyland. Before we left, the boatmen were around our ship again with cigarettes, fruits, Turkish delight etc.

We passed the warship "Ocean" as we entered the canal. There is great activity on the banks of the canal. Large numbers of Indian troops placed at intervals along the banks making fortifications.

It is most amusing to see them standing high up waving their picks and shovels in their hands and shouting "hurrah" as we pass. The scene is very picturesque. These Indian troops look very picturesque and very smart in their distinctive dress of light Karki. Large numbers of Egyptian labourers are working along with them.

Jan 13th Wed.

We arrived in Port Said very early in the morning. The natives began to coal the ship as soon as we had anchored. A number of warships were in port also, some merchant ships including the City of London, Kaiser I Hind.

We were allowed to go ashore for a few hours and took full advantage of the opportunity to see as much of the place as possible.

We took a drive in a cab around the native parts and a tumble down district it was. The stenches emitted


[Page 37]
from the streets were awful.

We were bombarded with hawkers selling P.P.C. beads, cheap jewellery and feathers. These things looked attractive in the hands of the hawkers but once in your own possession their value seemed to decrease until ultimately one began to wonder why they had bought such rubbish. To a "greenhorn" these natives have a way with them, so persevering, so pursuading that they draw the money out of you in spite of yourself.

Met a Seaforth Highlander walking along the street. I made enquiries at him as to the station of his regiment. He stated the regiment had gone to France and that he had heard they had got a cutting up there. My reason for making the enquiries was to see if John was stationed anywhere near.

The usual quota of boatmen selling fruits etc. surrounded the ship. There was in addition a boat containing a string band who entertained us with some fine music then asked for a collection.

A youngster of 11 or 12 years of age also entertained us with some marvellous tricks.

We left Port Said between 5 and 6 p.m.

Jan 14th Thu.

Sailed into Alexandria 8 a.m. Big number of ships in the harbour. A one time Sultan’s Palace stands right in front of the harbour.


[Page 38]
Endeavoured to get leave ashore but had no luck in that respect.

Jan 15th Frid.

Got up early in order to go to Cairo but not having entered my name over night no pass was available. Only a select few get to know of these things, I notice. Cliques which to my mind are disgusting.

However, later in the day I got a pass to go to Alexandria and had a glorious time.

I did not go to the native quarters this time but found my way to the European part and considered Alex - to be a fine city.

We were taken to various places of interest by young men who were students. We spent a very pleasant hour or two walking through the museum. Ancient Egyptian statues, jewelley, minimum 2000 year old etc. were to be seen here.

We strolled through a beautiful garden in which were the ruins of an ancient castle said to have been built in 108 A.D.

We had not the annoyance of streetsellers pestering the life out of us to buy, in this city. A fine square is to be found in the centre of the city.

The sail over to the "Kyarra" and vice versa in the small boats was not altogether a pleasure owing to the eratic movements of the boatmen.

The U.S.A. warship "Tennecale" was in the harbour near by us. The streets of Alex – were very busy


[Page 39]
with the passing of A.A.S.C. along them.

Two lectures given to us by Col Nash on the dangers in the large cities especially Egypt.

Jan 16th Sat. Pay 10/-

Rain in the forenoon. Went ashore in a small cutter.

Went through a part of the town which was made up of native shops and dwellings. It was a picturesque scene to see these shops all open to the street. Fruitshops, Grocers, Bootmakers, Drapers all with a peculiar air about them which I had not seen previosuly. Every place was open to the public eye and one found it extremely interesting to watch the native blacksmith, cage makers, bootmakers and broom makers at work. We wandered about with no particular aim in view till we reached Ras-el-Tin Palace. In the Barracks some Manchester Territorials are stationed at present. A few of them took us round the barracks and showed us the place. We then made our way along the water  sea front back to the city. Had dinner in the Soldiers &
Sailors Home. Not very much life about that place.

We took a cab after the usual bargaining on prices. The driver drove us to Pompeii Pillar and we saw Catacombs under it.


[Page 40]
Pompeii Pillar is a tall pillar of granite and is a fine piece of work. It is said to be 2300 years old. Inset in the stand of the pillar the tomb of Pompeii was pointed out to us. We were then taken underground and there we saw some Roman Catacombs.

Having seen all that was to be seen here, we were then driven to the Catacombs proper. In seeing them we indeed got a surprise. We walked down steps which were made, spiral like, round a chimney like structure of massive stonework down into the earth. When we reached the bottom of the shaft several places like large rooms of solid masonry were to be seen. In these places the favouite horses were buried, several skulls and bones of horses found there, were exhibited.

Branching off from these rooms were passages about 4 ft wide and 7 ft high which were also of the same massive nature. These passages contained two rows on each side of the individual tombs. Various niches where families were buried and beautifully carved figures of Roman Gods were of great interst. Some remains were still in these tombs.

These places are lit up by electric light. It is an awe inspiring sight to see these catacombs. There are a great many more


[Page 41]
to be opened up but owing to water coming in, it will take some time to do so.

Drove round by the canal back to the city.

Went back to the ship at 4 p.m. Got orders to have our kits packed and ready to disembark.

Jan 17th. Sun. M.O.

"Kyarra" went alongside the wharf this morning. Men have been detailed for duty on the Wharf and to unload No. 2 A.G.H. stores from the ship. Kept busy all day unloading.

Jan 18th Mon.

Very busy unloading still. Had leave in the evening. Strolled along the streets of Alex –

Jan 19th Tues.

Working in the sheds, shifting stores.

Jan 20th Wed.

Left for Cairo 8 a.m. Heavy mist in the early part of the morning. After the air cleared we were entertained to a very pretty and picturesque scene right along the line. The natives in there native dress, working in the fields, usually in groups was delightful. The natives, riding there donkey in a peculiar fashion, along the banks of the canal. The camels with there slow easy going pace and their masters seated in front of their humps with an occasional outburst in the native tongue and a wack of their stick to make them move faster was very funny. The beautiful green vegetation growing on the very flat land, land which stretched


[Page 42]
as far as the eye could see and never seemed to rise above the levee. The native mud built villages and the peculiar cemetaries outside the villages all pictured a scene which was utterly new to us, and all the more interesting in that respect.

Arrived in Cairo about 12 mid day. We were put on unload stores.

Had dinner in the Kasr-el-nil Barracks. We loaded the stores on to Tram Cars which took them to Camp hear Mena House Hotel, about seven miles away at the foot of the Great Pyramids.

We reached camp at 8 p.m.

Jan 21st Thur.

Went to Cairo to unload stores.

Back in Camp 4 pm.

Jan 22nd Fri.

Detailed for hospital Duty in No. 6 ward.

Jan 23rd, 24th, 25th, 26th, 27th. No. 6 ward.

Jan 28th Thur.

Received a good deal of correspondence. Some of it had gone to Aust – and followed me back to Egypt.

Jan 29th Friday.

Had the afternoon off duty. Climbed to the top of the Great Pyramid of Ghiza. It is said to have been built by King Cheops 5000 years ago. It was originally 477 ft high but the top part has been taken away which makes it at present 451 ft. high. Built of limestone it is said to cover a base of 13 acres. I had an old Egyptian guide. He held me by the hand and pulled me up step by step.


[Page 43]
The size of the stones varied in most cases from three to four ft square. One got a very good view from the top of the Pyramid. Away on the left was nothing but sand, sand as far as the eye could reach. On the left, the River Nile with the border of beautiful agricultural country and palm trees, was very pretty and a delightful contrast. In front, on the sand, was the camp of the Australian troops in training. About 200 yds from the foot of the Pyramid, Mena House Hotel stands. It is at present the hospital for the camp, namely No. 2 A.G.H.

Away down in the valley about 400 yds from the pyramid, the Mysterious Sphinx is to be seen. It has the head of a man and the body of a lion. It is said to have been worshipped as a god at one time. There is also the view of the Temple of the Sphinx close to it. It is built of marble with an alabaster floor and looked as if it had just been excavated after having been covered with sand.

I was, to a certain extent, disappointed when I saw the Sphinx for the first time. I think after reading accounts I had expected to see something more marvellous. Since then however I have walked round by the Sphinx at various times of the day and evening and every visit seemed to impress me more than the proceeding one. One visit I remember well. It was about eight o’clock int he evening, a beautiful moonlight evening and the stars shining


[Page 44]
brightly. A sight which I dont think that anyone can see unless they go to Egypt to see it. The Sphinx simply fascinated one. The features of the face seemed to me to be almost human, and I would not have been the least surprised, had that massive monument spoken to us, so real and lifelike it seemed to be.

Rode back to the Hospital on a camel’s back. A very queer sensation as one rolls along. My sailing experience put me a great deal more at my ease, than otherwise I would have been.

Purchased a few scarrabs and Ancient coins from the natives in order to get rid of them as these natives gather round and one has no peace until they are got rid of by some means or other.

Friday 29th Jan.

Transferred many patients to the Field Hospital.

News of a scrap with the Turks down on the Suez Canal. Aust – troops sent to Ismaelia. A few of the sisters left for the same place.

A large number of invalided soldiers being sent back to Aust –

30th Jan. Sat. P.D.

Went in to Cairo and paid I.McK. a visit.

Jan 31st Feb 1st Monday.

Invalids turned back. Something wrong in the Canal.

Feb 2nd, 3rd 4th Thursday.

Went into Cairo this afternoon along with other three. We took the tram to the citadel


[Page 45]
It is like Edinburgh Castle, built very high up on a hill, with the second finest mosque in the world built at the top, namely Mohammed City Mosque.

From this point we got a splendid view of the city of Cairo and the surrounding country. At our feet lay the city, flat roofed, and covering a wide area. There are said to be 500 mosques in Cairo and to look at the minarets and domes pointing skywards above the flat tops of the houses is a fine change from what one sees in European countries.

To the left lies old Cairo a conspicuous object there is the Old Roman Acqueduct, which at parts has tumbled down.

Away in the distance on the edge of the desert about ten miles away the Pyramids are to be seen. There are nine pyramids but only three can be seen the others are small and are almost in ruins. On the banks of the River Nile the beautiful green of the land there is delightful.

Leaving the Citabel we went down through the narrow streets and lanes inhabited by the natives. It was very interesting, and I felt as if I could never tire walking through these strange places and new scenes.

One could see the natives at their various simple industries. There are no windows to these shops which are invariable small and one could see all that was going on.

The Egyptian women veil their faces


[Page 46]
the forehead and the eyes only being visible. The married women wear black veils and the unmarried wear white. To see a well dressed Egyptian women under these circumstances is very fascinating. Their eyes have a very bewitching appearance, very black, sparkling and penetrating.

We came to a mosque and curious to see the inside of it we made to go inside. As we were about to step through the doorway we were stopped and requested to put large slippers over our boots before entering. We did as we were requested.

The floor of the mosques are laid with carpet. The walls are massively built. The roof was beautifully inlaid with ivory, ebony etc.. Beautiful stained glass windows with the colours Red, Yellow, Green and Blue nicely blended gave the place a very rich and also a very refreshing appearance. A niche in the wall of the Mosque is placed facing the East. It is facing this way that the people pray. The reason is that Mecca, their Holy City lies in that direction.

A native boy was at his devotions as we entered.

Continuing our walk along the narrow streets we were attracted by quaint, crude drawings on one of the houses. We learned that these crude drawings showed to all that the inhabitant of that house had visited Mecca and the drawings depicted the


[Page 47]
manner he had travelled there. Painted by an amateurish hand were figures of a house, a train, a rider on a donkey, a rider on a camel and other indescribable figures.

We finshed the day’s outing by having tea in Groppi’s, the high Class Restaurant of Cairo. Going into to "Groppi’s" one has to pick up a plate and small fork and spoon. Armed with these, one picks out the cakes he desires of which there are a very large selection. Taking your plate of cakes to a favourite seat the waiter calls and you give the order for anything you want to drink.

We happened to be in this place about six o’clock evening, when it is very busy. The offices and places of business just having closed. To see these smartly dressed men of all nationalities, the majority of them wearing the national equivalent for a hat, namely the Red Tarboosh is a very pretty sight indeed. Large numbers of soldiers visit this place, privates rubbing shoulders with officers of all ranks. Reached back to camp as the bugle sounded "lights out".

Feb 5th Fri.

A piece of music which is very familiar to our ears in the mornings is the "Dead March". The reason for this is obvious, some soldier has passed to his last resting place.

Feb 6th Sat. H.D.


[Page 48]
On pass after 2 p.m. D.I. and myself went round by the Sphinx. We had our photo taken in front of the Sphinx with the Pyramid as a background. We hired camels and had the photos taken as we were seated on their backs.

We then rode round by the Pyramids. Dismounting at the third/second Pyramid we entered it, guided by an Egyptian guide.

We had to slide a great way down into the earth, before we reached the chambers. There are nine chambers in this pyramid, some of which are very small. This pyramid was differently constructed from the other one I had visited.

In this case the chambers were made away down in the solid rock and the pyramid built over them. I liked this one better than the great pyramid.

Having seen all that was to be seen, we were taken to a tomb of one of the Rameses. It was only a hole in the sand. We hesitated to go under. We went under however, and we were very much surprised and also were delighted when we saw the inside walls, which would be no more than three feet high. We were in a bent position all the time.

On the walls which were solid rock, were beautiully carved hyeraglphic figures, depicting various scenes in the life of the individual, agriculture, fishing etc. It was really delightful to see this ancient art. It is said to be 6,000 years old.

In the evening we went in the car


[Page 49]
to Cairo.

After having tea in Groppi’s we walked about town seeing what was to be seen.

The streets were crowded with troops. One saw sights in some of these streets which they are not likely to forgot. At door after door we saw groups of soldiers standing around numbers of young women. One, at a distance thought these young women very pretty, but on closer examination one drew back with disgust at their debased appearance. To make up for their lost beauty they had painted themselves about the face and dressed themselves in a fairly becoming fashion, which would have cheated all but the close observing. There is no doubt that some of these young women had been very pretty. The life they were leading had degraded them.

They were inviting the soldiers up to their rooms which some of them were foolish enough to do. Many of these young men rue the day they entered into hospital, back to Aust – as undesirable, ruined, not only themselves, but others, for life.

Sunday 8th, 9th 10th Wednesday,. P. all back P3.26. Longer hours on duty now.

Everything seems to be in a state of chaos. None of the officers seem to be able to take a grip of the situation and guide the hospital aright.

Thursday Feb 11th, 12th 13th 14th 15th 16th 17th Thursday Feb 18th

Eight deaths have taken place since we came here. Went into Cairo along with D.


[Page 50]
Met I McK & Mr. D. with whom we went out to Heliopolis in the car. It is a beautiful place built out into the desert. The buildings out their are wonderful and are of Arabic architecture.

We walked through some of the bazaars in Cairo finishing up with having a delightful tea in Groppi’s.

Frid Feb 19th 20th 21st Sunday.

Visited the St. Andrew Church of Scotland along with Ian McK. It was just like a church service at home. One could hardly believe they were in Egypt.

A very large number of troops were at the service. The special hymn for soldiers was sung. The author of the hymn is Mr. John Oxenford.

Mon Feb 22nd

Sent the Sphinx Photos home also frames.

Feb 23rd 24th Wed.

Went into Cairo and then out Heliopolis.

Had tea in Groppi’s.

Feb 25th 26th 27th 28th Sund.

Getting my correspondence more regularly now.

The troops moved off this evening. Where they are going to no one knows.

March 1st Mon.

Nos. 4, 5, 6 Wards practically empty. Patients sent to the Citadel Hospital. Three of our unit have been Court martialled for stealing money belonging to a patient.

Eggs here are very small and very cheap.

Received the first newspaper since I left Sydney. The "Observer", the Xmas Annual. They contained very


[Page 51]
interesting news.

Have taken some photo’s with D.I.’s camera.

On night duty. Very hot sleeping in tents during the day time. Not so much work however.

The Pyramids are a marvellous piece of work, but it gives one greater pleasure to observe the manner and customs of the people of this country, especially, the lower and agricultural classes.

The more I see of the natives in there everyday life the more I can understand the scenes depicted in the Bible.

One feels as they go about here that they have been placed on the "magic carpet" and transported into strange lands.

March 2nd 3rd 4th 5th 6th 7th Sunday.

Sentence passed on L. 90 days hard labour, G 6 month’s hard labour D. 1 year. The whole of our Corps was paraded and the sentence read to the men, the prisoners charged with stealing the money from the patient were marched off under guard after hearing the sentence read to them.

I ([indecipherable]) have gone almost stone deaf these last few days.

A great many people are climbing the Pyramid to-day. They look like ants as they climb up the side.

March 8th Mon.

All our stores have been sent away, so we all expect to move off shortly.

Nos 4, 5, 6 wards are full up again. Most of them are suffering from


[Page 52]
Rheumatics, Earaches, Influenza.

March 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th, 12th Fri.

Notice of Embarkation.

March 13th Sat. 14th Sunday, 15th Mon.

Drove out to Heliopolis in the motor ambulance. Got my ears examined. The cause of the deafness being the sand getting into the passages of the ears. Told that the trouble would probably leave me when I left the country. Undergoing treatment. Off duty. I can sympathize with anyone who suffer from deafness.

March 16th Tues.

Everything that can be done without has been sent away from here.

Those men not on duty in the hospital are out on the sand getting stretcher and wagon drill.

Have felt a great deal better of the few days rest.

Had a stroll up to the Pyramids along with P.S. and W.A. Took a few snaps.

March 17th Wed 18th Thu.

Went into Cairo along with W.A. Visited the "Mouski" district, the bazaar etc which I found exceedingly interesting. Had tea in Groppi.

March 19th Friday 20th Sat.

A party of 4 of our unit went back to-day on a hospital transport to Aust - .

Visited the Cairo Museum and had a general look around.

March 21st Sat.

The warship "Ocean" which we passed on our way at Port Suez has been sunk at the Dardanelles.

There are still a great many rumours as to our going away. One gets sick hearing them.

Saw a native funeral pass our camp


[Page 53]
from one of the villages near by. The corpse is carried in a plain wooden coffin covered with cloth and a tall, thin, piece in the front of it. It is placed on the shoulders of four bearers. Mourners follow in front and rear chanting some lament as they slowly walk along. Behind the mourners walked a little boy leading a saddled donkey. Probably the dead person’s favourite donkey.

Aust – troops are tugging at the leash in there desire to move off.

Mond 22nd March

Drill and Lecture. Capt Storey.

March 23rd Tue

Heavy mist crowns the top of the Pyramids. Resembles the mist on the mountain tops at home.

Lecture from Capt Reach. He gave us some news which pleased us all very much. He said that there probably be no nurses going with us. Our probable distination will be the Dardanelles. Instead of 500 beds we are to have 4,000 beds in the hospital and every man in it is to do the nursing.

If Greece had fallen in with the Allies we would probable have been settled in the North of Greece.

March 24th Wed. S.D. 25th Thu.

Spent a very pleasant time in the Gardens along with I. McK. and friends who are nursemaids in Cairo. Had a stroll through the Mouski district.

Maarch 26th Fri. S.D.

Myriads of locusts are flying about, they give the appearance of huge flakes of snow falling.

March 27th Sat. S.D.


[Page 54]
Orders have been issued to increase the accomodation at Mena House. We are all anxious to leave Egypt. We will probably have to wait till a passage of the Dardanelles has been forced before we will leave here.

The increased accomodation in the hospital has been rapidly filled up.

March 27th Sun.

Heavy shower of rain fell during the night.

A severe sand storm this morning. It covered all our gear with sand and made us very uncomfortable getting into our eyes, ears, nose and mouth also. The Pyramid is completely hidden from our view.

We cannot keep the pegs of our tents in the sand so strong is the wind blowing. We have a great deal of trouble with flies during the day when the sun is hot. In the cool of the evening the flies disappear and then the mosquitoes turn to torment us comes.

I have resorted to wearing my Balaclava cap during the night, but still they get at me. The very small exposed parts of my face and also my wrists get bitten all over.

March 29th Mon.

Severe storm to-day again. A great deal of stores tents etc. sent back from Cairo. Enough for other 200 patients. New wards opened. On duty in admission room.

March 20th Tues.

H.O. in La Socurs Ward. Newly opened, 28 petients admitted.


[Page 55]
March 31st Wed.

22 Patients admitted "La Socurs".

April 1st Thurs. 2nd Frid.

Riot amongst some of the Aus – troops in Cairo.

April 3rd Sat.

All leave stopped.

Troops moving off to the front in high spirits, those not moving off are very disappointed. Animated scenes are being enacted. The bands are marching past playing inspiriting music and cheer after cheer is being raised as the battalions march away, to, no one except the heads know where. It is very galling to be left behind.

April 4th Sun.

More troops leave to-day. It is stated that we move off very soon. It is expected to close Mena House within 24 hours.

In "La Socurs" ward on my own to-day. Suffered terribly from mosquitoe bites last night.

April 5th Mon.

Another severe sand storm today. More troops moving off.

April 6th Tue.

Spent the afternoon in Cairo. Went to the Kursaal. Entertainment good enough but not to my taste.

April 8th 9th Frid.

Anniversary of our leaving home to-night.

April 10th 11th Sund.

Went to the church in Cairo along with I. McK.

In connection with the church


[Page 56]
a picnic and sail up the River Nile on Saturday, April 17th is to be held.

A number of kits stolen from our camp in spite of the fact that the owners were asleep in the tent when they were stolen.

It is a continual emptying of wards and filling up of wards again by new patients just now. They are mostly of a minor nature. Influenza, tonsilitus etc. which soon recover.

April 12th 13th 14th 15th 17th Sat.

The St. Andrews Presbyterian Church held their annual picnic and sail up the River Nile.

We formed a party of 5 I. McK, M.D. Pte W of the 8th L.H. F.A. D and myself.

We left the Kasr-el-Nil landing stage at 3.35 in the afternoon in the "Rameses III" a steamboat belonging to Thos Cook & Co. We sailed for two hours up the river. The afternoon was beautiful and the time we sailed was the best time of the day, just as the sun was going down and the extreme heat had cooled off.

The palm trees growing on the banks of the river gave it the fine oriental appearance. We saw a double shaduf lift, means of which water is raised to irrigate the land. It must be a very laborious job raising this water by means of buckets. We also saw the boats being loaded by natives with stone from the quarries on the Mokattum hills.

The barges were very peculiar being flat-bottomed and a high curved


[Page 57]
bow, the shape of the barge accompanies by the tall fin shaped sails were very interesting.

We were treated to ices, cakes, and also tea as we sailed up the river. After about two hours sail we anchored near the river bank and were allowed off for an hour or so. In order to get on to the main road which ran parrallel with the canal, this is a regular thing in Egypt, we had to cross through fields of splendid grain. In the cool of the evening once could hardly imagine themselves in Egypt. It was more like being in Scotland on a beautiful summers evening when the corn etc is just beginning to ripen.

Having enjoyed our short time ashore viewing the natives at their work in the fields, driving home their pecular and I may say ugly looking cattle goats etc we returned to the steamer.

We had a splendid supper on board and it was enjoyed by everyone.

Prizes were presented to the winners of the sports which were held on deck on our way up. Some of them which were presented to the men were of a humorous kind and were the cause of a great deal of laughter.

Mrs McK and M.D. who had entered for the ladies three-legged race were very much surprised and needless to say delighted when they learned that they had won the race.

The remainder of the evening was spent in a free and easy concert in which some very good singing was given. We arrived back at 10 pm.


[Page 58]
everyone having enjoyed the outing very much.

April 18th 19th Mond.

Went out shooting quail this afternoon along with D & S. We got the loan of two guns and cartridges from Abdul the restaurant keeper and in peace times, guide to tourists. He was a fine type of Arab, could speak several languages, and was very intelligent. Along with Mahammed who went with us to raise the game we wandered over Abduls crops. A few birds were raised but the excitement of the moment and the fact we had not handled a gun for a long time we aimed blindly, or the bird was out of range before we had time to fire. We had almost given up hope of bringing down any game when S. by a chance shot hit one a short distance away.

In our endeavour to secure the bind we wandered into somebody else’s ground and a native woman came out and shouted all sorts of things in her native tongue at us. Mohammed know what she said we did’nt, but one could gather from her gesticulations and excited manner that their was trouble brewing for us if we went much further. We got the bird and returned home.

The birds are very small and so that their would be enough for us all we decided that Abdul should provide us with two birds each, cook them, and we then had a delightful tea on quails very nicely done up.

We had our photos taken. The solitary


[Page 59]
quail, about half a dozen natives and the "gallant sportsmen".

In the evening D.R & I hired donkeys from the donkey boys who are always to be found at the foot of the Pyramids. As a rule the boys belonging to the donkeys run behind to goad the donkeys on. We asked them to allow us to have the donkeys to ourselves for the time being. This was disartrious to me at least. We went up to the Sphinx, the donkey moved along all right there as the boys happened to be behind. After the boys left us I could not get my donkey to go at all. I hammered it with my cane till the cane broke in two. With the small piece that was still left in my hand I hammered till making a desperate blow at his hind quarters I missed,almost upsetting myself off the donkey and the piece of cane flew out of my hand. Being left with nothing in my hand I took off my leather belt and wallopped him with this formidable whip, but to no avail. So long as he was going away from his station he was as stubborn as the proverbial mule. Giving the game up as hopeless, and turning his head homewards I reached the station in double quick time. Whither the donkey or I was more pleased I do not know. I don’t think it could be any more pleased than myself. We’ll call it quits.

April 20th, 21st 22nd 23rd 24th 25th Sund.

Spent the afternoon in Esbekiah Gardens Cairo. A Territorial Brass Band was


[Page 60]
discoursing music there. It was very interesting to watch the people who surrounded the band-stand. All kinds of nationalities were represented. A large number of the Karki fraternity were there also.

April 26th 27th Tues.

D & I met Mrs. McK and showed her round the Sphinx and Pyramids. I was the only one able to climb to the top of the Pyramid.

At one time M’s donkey refusing to go, silently slid to the soft sand but after much persuasion we got it up and the afternoon finished without mishap.

April 28th 29th

Spent afternoon writing letters. A beautiful moonlight evening. Went for a donkey ride round by the Pyramids and Sphinx. The reflection of the moon on the side of the Pyramid was glorious. The words of Scott with regard to Melrose Abbey "If thou would ‘st view fair Melrose aright, Go, visit it by pale moonlight" is very adaptable to the Sphinx and Pyramids also.

A rumour to the effect that 2000 wounded had been landed at Alex – Eight nurses left Mena House for Alex – in a hurry.

April 30th Fri.

A very large number of wounded arrived from the Dardanelles. It was a sight to see them come in. Those who were sent to Mena were not of the most seriously wounded.

They came in, in large numbers. It was in a sense quite amusing to see wounded men, men wounded in the arm assisting others who were


[Page 61]
wounded in the leg and foot. Some came in singing, others were telling there experiences in rather a humorous fashion. Some of them had been wounded on the barges going over and others had only been a few minutes on the peninsular or perhaps hours. Their clothes were all tattered and torn and covered with blood and mud, having travelled the few hunded miles in this condition. One could see that some of them had had very narrow escapes. Marks where bullets had grazed the clothes or their skin at vital parts were tracable.

They seem to have had a terrible time and the casualties are expected to be very numerous. The landing took place on the 25th of April about 4 a.m. in the morning.

May 1st Sat.

More wounded arrived to-day. Beds are placed in every conceivable place. Passage as well as the wards and even the flat roof had beds on them.

May 2nd Sun.

Wounded patients are very much better to look after than medical cases. It is a pleasure to help them. They are more lively and don’t whine like medical patients.

May 3rd Mon May 4th Tues.

More wounded expected. Plenty of wounds to dress.

May 5th 6th 7th 8th Sat.

The natives are busy in the fields drawing water from wells in the fields by means of the shaduf. This is poured into narrow channels which allow the


[Page 62]
water to flow where it will irrigate the fields. This method is very simple and very primative, but labourious.

The biggest part of our hospital is at the large hotel near Cairo called Ghezirah Palace Hotel

The flies are terrible at present.

May 9th Sun fine 10th

Left house at 2.30 p.m. taking the car which goes to the Citadel. Reaching the Citadel, before I could get off the car, I was pestered with a guide as per usual and ultimately decided to go with him at the reduced cost of 3 piastres (71/2).

We went to two Mosques and also saw the Sultans tombs. Outside one of the mosques there are numerous marks on the wall said to have been caused by the bombardments of Napoleon’s army. One large hole was pointed out to us. It contained a round object, a cannon ball, which had lodged there.

The few mosques which I have seen since I came here are all pretty much alike as regards architecture and decoration. They have all beautiful glass stained windows. The colours Red, Blue, Orange and Green nicely blended. A border, high up on the wall, written in Arabic all passages from the Koran in golden colours. There is a niche in the wall of the mosque which faces the east towards the Mohammadan Holy City Mecca. The mohammedans always pray facing the east. At this part there is also a narrow staircse leading up to the pulpit. Devotions are conducted from this pulput every Friday, this day being their Sunday.


[Page 63]
Apart from the special devotions on Friday services are also held every day 6 a.m. 12 noon, 3 p.m. and 6 p.m.

Tall minarets are also an indespensible part of a mosque. From these minarets the people are called to prayer by the priests. I climbed to the top of one of those minarets and had a splendid view of the surrounding country.

The second largest mosque in the world is the Mohammed Aly Mosque which is at the highest part of the Citadel. Before going into the Mosque proper, at the place where the Mohomadeans wash their hands and feet there is a clock said to have been placed there by Napoleon. This part of the mosque had no roof over it. Going into the part where devotions are held we found it laid with beautiful, soft, carpet.

The walls are made of alabaster. One small part was pointed out where imitation alabaster was place by Napoleon who took away the real kind. The difference was very noticeable after it had been pointed out to us. In this mosque there are about 200 lamps which are lit at certain times of the year. At that time it must be a very pretty sight.

May 10th 11th Tues.

Got a number of original photos of the Aust – troops landing in the peninsular.

An address and concert given to the wounded in hospital under the auspices of the Y.M.C.A. The favourite song of the evening was "Are we downhearted No! No! No!"

May 12th Wed.

Went to Cairo and bought a large


[Page 64]
quantity of printing material to print photos of the troops landing at the Anzac Beach.

Night Duty B. Block. Bot two books [indecipherable] & Legends by Adelaide’s Proctor, Psalms in Human Life by Prothero.

I notice that the wounds of the men are healing up beautifully.

One of my mates D. was at an Arab wedding. The customs on this occasion were very amusing but according to what he says they don’t have much respect for women.

The number of patients in hospital are gradually diminishing. They are being sent to Helonan Convalescent Home.

The flies in the daytime, and the mosquitoes at night are awful to bear.

Prizes are being given by the Officers in the hospital for the best description of any incident which occurred during the "landing" "Springy" is acting G.C. of the hospital at present.

May 13th Thur.

Went to Cairo. A visit to Cairo always means a visit to Groppi’s for one.

May 14th 15th Sat.

Cairo. Went into the grotto at Esbekiah Garden.

May 16th Sun.

Went to the St. Andrews Church. Had been on night duty, which, coupled with the very hot day made one very drowsy. To work during the night is very well, but one cannot very well get sleep during the day, owing to the extreme heat even in tents and also the flies almost drive


[Page 65]
one wrong in the mind. To lie under the shade of a tree or wall is much cooler than to lie in closeness of a tent. The flowing robes and the loosely fitting, light coloured clothes of the natives gives a good illustration of how the people of a country cloth themselves to suit their climate conditions.

During the hotter part of the day from 12 midday to 3 or 4 o’clock in the afternoon one comes across natives lying in the shade of a tree or a wall even on the pavement of the streets in the city. Lying on the ground they throw their cloak over their heads to save them from the fly nuisance. I can’t help thinking that the manner in which the native women carry their water jugs and their baskets on their heads is meant for the same purpose, namely to ward off the flies. By carrying thse things on their heads, their hands are free. It is very interesting to see these women balancing their water jugs and baskets on their heads and waving the hands and arms in a peculiar fashion as if to whisk away the flies. Necessity is the mother of invention and this method saves the use of the fly whisks that the people of this nation use at this time of the year in Egypt.

A kind of tree which looks very pretty at this time of the year is . It is similar to our Rowan tree but has beautiful blossom of a nice bluish tint. It is grown a great deal here to line the roadways and looks very pretty.

Amongst the working class of the city


[Page 66]
there is a certain amount of vanity. They go through, doing their work at an easy going pace during the day (in the evening) In the evening putting their robes over them, walking stick in hand, they walk home in such a jaunty fashion that one would think they had’nt a care in the world. Some of the natives employed at the hospital have surprised one very much in this respect. Many times I have met them on the street and failed to recognise them until they had recognise me.

Whilst seated in a tram car on my way to Cairo to-day a well-dressed Arab sat down beside me. As he sat down he greeted me with the salutation"How are you"? with the emphasis on the you. I replied "Very well thank you". He then began chatting away on a variety of interesting subjects to which I listened or replied as the case may be with delighted interest. After we had talked to-gether for some time, he rather startled me with the remark "Your not an Australian your either a Scotsman or an Irishman more Scotch than Irish, I think."? I was much amused at this remark. "Yes" I said, I am a Scotsman. "Ah" he said, the only part that is Australian about you is your uniform". This Arab could speak very good English. He was a guide and some of these guides can speak quite a number of languages. I have had quite a number of similar experiences like the above and they all go to show that these people who come in contact with other nationalities can tell by one’s accent the country to which one belongs.


[Page 67]
Another class of native one comes across, and he is a pest, is the one who is always begging. They are continually beg, beg begging socks, shirts, boots, in fact anything which one has or wears seems to be the thing which they would like to have. They pester the life out of one, no matter how you talk to them. They do not lack for perserverance. Sometimes I feel inclined to give this class of people a bar of soap, for they are usually very dirty and smell awful. The chances are if one gave them a bar of soap they would throw it away.

Sent P.A.

May 17th Mon. Tues 18th No. 5 ward.

Shifted into new sleeping quarters. The room is at the top of the hotel looking out on to the Pyramids.

May 19th, 20th, 21st, 22nd Sat.

Visited the Cairo Zoo which is situated near Ghaza. It is beautifully laid out and has a splendid collection of wild animals. The best collection of animals I have ever seen. The pontoons by means of which the Turks had endeavoured to cross the Suez Canal early this year were on exhibition in the zoo. They were very much damaged by shot and shell.

There is a splendid Grotto here. To-day being an exceptionally hot day it was very refreshing to sit in the cool shade and listen to the music of the water as it tripped over the artificial rocks which formed the grotto. Seated in the cool shade of the grotto one could picture up pretty scenes similar, but on a larger scale,


[Page 68]
in the glens and amongst the mountains of Bonnie Scotland.

I also visited the Snake House in the zoo. I thoroughly enjoy this visit to the zoo and hope to spend more afternoons there. The entrance price ½ Piastre 1o/4 in English money.

There are a number of beautiful gardens around Cairo. After leaving the zoo I strolled through some of them. They are closed to the public at sunset. The black Sudanese Park Keeper goes around at closing time ringing a bell to warn the peoples that the gates are soon to be closed.

These gardens are well taken advantage of by the people. People of all nationalities congregate there. Nurse maids with their charges and children predominate. Young & old Egyptians go there with their books to read, generally reading aloud or sit in a ring discussing with one another what they read. Walking through these gardens one is often asked to answer a question in English by some of them, so earnest do they seem in acquiring knowledge.

May 23rd Sun.

Italy declares war on the Germs.

Looking out to the East from the verandah of Mena one saw the sunrise which was exceedingly beautiful.

The natives are up early and all busily working in their fields. The harvesting of certain grains is at present going on. The grain is (put on) heaped on to


[Page 69]
the backs of camels and taken to a place outside the village into small heaps. There it is being threshed in a very antiquated manner. A vehicle, something like a large armchair with a flat bottom, is used. The Yellaheen seats himself on this and is drawn round in a circle by bullocks. It struck one as very funny to see a man seated on one of these vehicles with a huge umbrella held over his head. This was not to keep off the rain but to shield himself from the intense heat of the sun.

A description of what is to be seen in the fields just now near our camp should be very interesting, at least it is very pretty and would require the work of a good artist to do justice to it in a picture.

A small part of the field where the grain is ripe for harvesting there are a dozen natives, men and women and children. Some are cutting the grain, others are loading it on to the backs of camels, whilst some of the older natives are sitting in the crouched up fashion peculiar to them, deep in conversation, and the children are running about playing with one another as children of other countries do. On the part where the corn has been cut, cattle, donkeys and goats are grazing. This with the sand of the desert in front and the green setting behind formed a very pretty picture.

May 24th Mon 25th Tues.

Large number of birds of the swallow type are flying about here.

Sent P.C.A. away.


[Page 70]
In Cairo. Visited Geizerah Palace where the greater part of our hospital is at present.

The evenings are clear up to seven o’clock. There is no twilight.

May 26th Wed

A number of French wounded who were on a visit to the Pyramids had their photo taken in front of Mena House. More patients going out, none coming in. Some of the wards are being closed down.

May 27th Thur.

Exceptionally hot to-day.

It is glorious to sit on the verandah here and look out on the dark outline of the Pyramids in the night moonlight with the evening so nice and cool.

In spite of the fact that we are so well off in comparison with the men who are in the trenches, there is a feeling of dissatisfaction amongst those of us who are here. We went to get nearer the scene of action. I suppose it is human nature to be discontented. All our tents have been taken down and we are now sleeping in rooms in Mena House.

T. M. fell from his horse and was dragged along the road for about a hundred yards and was pretty badly injured.

May 28th Fri.

Read "The Pleasures of Life" by Lord Avebury.

Went into the large swimming bath at Mena at five o’clock. Did not take advantage of


[Page 71]
this before owing to so many of the troops using it and the water being so seldom changed.

The long stretch of Acacia trees which line the road to the Pyramids have taken on leaves of a nice light green tint which looks very pretty.

May 29th Sat. In Cairo.

Went to the gardens with I. M. The gardens are at their loveliest at this time. It is simply glorious to walk through these gardens.

Twenty eight re-inforcements have arrived at Ghezirah. This should make things much lighter on us if we should get busy again.

June 1st Tues.

Weather still continues to be hot.

In Cairo. It is amusing, if one happens to stand at any point waiting on a tram etc, how the native urchins gather round and jabber away in their native tongue to you. I found this is a good opportunity to learn a few words of their languages. The method adopted is to say English – "tea" "Arabic"?. If they understand straightway, the answers comes Arabic "Shay". This method makes on the possessor of numerous necessary words quite simply and incidentally causes some amusement amongst these black urchins.

June 2nd 3rd 4th Frid

Saw the sun set from the Citadel. Visited the Mohammed Ali Mosque along with D. & I.M.


[Page 72]
June 5th Sat.

Definate word that Mena House is to be closed on Monday the 7th.

June 6th Sun.

General Maxwell and his wife visited Mena to-day.

June 7th Mon.

Everything belonging to No. 2 was cleared out to-day. By mid day the place was empty. Spent the afternoon in the swimming pond.

Bid farewell to Mena at 8 o’clock to-night.

June 8th Tues.

Had to sleep under a tree during the night.

June 9th Wed

Fixing up a new ward.

June 10th Thurs.

N.D. Special Case.

200 Tommies arrived from the Dardanelles, wounded.

June 11th 12th Sat.

Drove to the Citadel with M. Had a look through the Mohammed Ali Mosque. From the Citadel we drove through narrow streets to the Bazaar district called "The Mouski". Visiting the Bazaar district was the most interesting and the most fascinating pastime that I had in Egypt.

The Rue Mouski seems to be the place where the natives do their commercial business. It is not a very broad street, and during the day is very busy. The men passing too and fro, usually in gaudily coloured and flowing robes, and wearing on their heads the favurite head gear, the Red Tarboosh or the Turban gives


[Page 73]
the place a picturesque Eastern appearance.

All along the street one finds the shop, or a better term for them, stalls are open to the street. One rarely finds a window in the shops. They have a very leisurely way of doing business. The people will sit for hours bargaining for articles.

One often comes across the shop keeper and others seated inside the shop conversing with one another in what seems to be a very brotherly fashion. This seems to be amongst the Egyptians, a favourite pastime and a favourite means of doing business.

It is when I get into the side streets or to be more correct alleys that I find the greatest pleasure and fascination.

In spite of the unkempt roadway and the musty smell one seems to forget these things and look on the new scene, away from the heat of the burning sun, with great pleasure and a feeling that one has been transported to a new and enchanted world.

Beautifully engraved Brass and Copper ware are favourite articles of merchandize with the natives. These ornaments, Coffee Sets, Plates, Rose Bowls, Vases, Obelisks, Candlesticks etc. are beautifully engraved by hand. This process one see often being done by the native workmen outside the shop door and it is marvellous how expert they become. Even little boys about ten years of age turn out beautiful work.


[Page 74]
The things depicted by the engraving are usually inscriptions from the Koran, or representations of Ancient Egyptian monuments like the Pyramids, and the Sphinx and also stories of Ancient Egyptian History.

As one makes their way up the alley one feels as if the upper stories of the buildings are going to tumble down on one’s head. One reflects that they have stood that way for ages and we go on our way with a feeling of relief. Next we see gaily coloured slippers which look very attractive and quaint. Inside the recesses one sees the shoemaker making these slippers.

Strolling along to the next shop we find cases of precious stones, some imitation, but most are real; so the shop keeper says! However they look very well indeed, some exceptionally beautiful. Other cases contain ancient Egyptian Ornaments, Scarabs, Rings, etc. Passing on a little further we come to the Silk warehouse. There we find some lovely silk Shawls, Wrapps and beautiful embroidery. A favourite article to be found in these kind of places is the native tent work. This usually takes the form of pieces of cloth sewn on to a piece of stout canvass so as to form the figure of one of the many Egyptian gods. To look at these tent work figures from a short distance they look exceedingly pretty.


[Page 75]
To wander round these various places one comes across all kinds of oddities in brass work, embroidery, carving in woodwork etc.

Workmen at their various occupation of repairing carpets, polishing precious stones, embroidery, making tarboosh, walking sticks, form a very interesting and instructive part to a visit here. These things are mostly hand done.

The above scenes are repeated along the narrow alley. We meet some interesting personages in these places. The waterman with his leather water bag over his back comes down the alley distributing water to those who wish a drink or may be scattering the water on the ground to "lay the stone". He is a pretty poor man and we learned that some of the business men probably had paid him for his bag of water thus the reason for his lavish manner of distributing the water.

We meet women carrying on their heads cage-like baskets containing rabbits or poultry which are for sale.

One also finds that their are men who have travelled a good bit to be found amongst these shop keepers. We asked one of the salesmen why it was that they put a price on a certain article and after bargaining for a long time he seems quite please to accept half the first price


[Page 76]
This man had been in London for three years. He was a Syrian. He said that he had tried our principle here but had found it of no use. He put up a notice to the effect that all his articles had one price and one price only. The result was, no sales the first day, no sales the first week, no sales for the month, so he gave it up in disgust and conformed to the custom of the other merchants in the bazaar and practised the bargaining principle. Another man we came across, a big, burly fellow seated outside the door of a brassware shop, engraving a large brass plate. He broke into conversation with us as we stood watching him at his work. He told us, a party of three we were, our correct ages much to our amazement. In conversing with him we learned that he had been in London. He had made his livelihood there as a conjuror and he proved to us that he was a conjuror by doing a few tricks with a coin. As we left him he gave us a hearty invitation to come back again.

There is one thing about these men, they are very, very, shrewd. They have a fine persuasive manner with them.

It is pretty difficult to express in words the fascination of these bazaars. Personally I have never enjoyed anything better. I have met chaps who felt like myself in this respect


[Page 77]
and I have also met others who were bored with the place.

June 13th Sun

Went to the Scots Church in Cairo this morning. During the day the sun was exceedingly hot and the sweat simply pours out of one. The sweat could be seen on my light drill clothes which we wear here.

It amuses one to see some of the chaps who have not yet been issued with their light clothing, coming in to church with the sleeves of their tunic rolled up.

The evenings are nice and cool. It is very cold about 2 o’clock in the morning.

In spite of the fact that we are having a comparatively easy time here I wish to get away to the scene of action. Trying to arrange a transfer with a chap in the Field Amb.

June 14th 15th Tues. Temperature 1150

Being on night duty owing to the extreme heat during the day I cannot sleep well. The tents seem to accentuate the heat. One advantage of Ghezirah, their are no mosquitoes.

June 16th Wed.

Walked through the Ghezirah Gardens this evening. There is a feeling of peace and quietness their in the cool of the evening. Women of different nationalities come out to these gardens as the sun goes down. Most of them are nursemaids looking after the children.

The gardens are beautifully kept. The grass is beautiful and green and are continually being


[Page 78]

watered by natives during the hot part of the day.

These gardens are situated along the banks of the River Nile. Along the banks of the River, numerous House boats are fastened. On these, people have their homes and also use them for journeying up and down the river for pleasure.

Across the river, on the other side stand the Kasr-el-Nil Barracks, a huge place, in which English Territorials are at present stationed. At present the river looks very pretty and with an occasional neat little yacth sailing along or the heavy looking flat bottom cargo boats with their tall fin shaped sails and the edge of the boat almost (to) on a level with the water and the dark coloured crew forms a very pretty picture.

June 17th Thur.

Recieved a letter which had taken 7 months to reach me from Aust -.

June 18th Fri. June 19th Sat. June 20th Sun.

Went to church with M. Rev W. Gillans last day. He goes on leave to Scotland. Rev W. Moffat from Elgin takes his place.

The services begin at 9.30 instead of 10.30 as it is expected that the weather would be much cooler. On former occasions the church was closed for three months at this season but owing to the large number of military they are endeavouring to hold services for their benefit. A large number of new patients arrived here to-day from the Darde-

June 21st Mon


[Page 79]
Day begins to break here about 4 o’clock in the morning. Darkness comes on at 8 o’clock in the evening. There is no twilight, darkness coming on very suddenly.

June 22 23rd Wed.

Had a walk down the "Mouski".

June 24th 25th 26th Sat

Took M. out to see the Pyramids this afternoon. This is the fifth time this trip had been intended and by some unforeseen circumstances had to be postponed. A few mishaps also happened during the trip which added spice to the outing.

First of all we lost the five minutes to four tram and had to wait half an hour on the next one. When we were about two miles from the Pyramids this car jumped the rails and we had to get off.

I tried to bargain for a camel to take us to the Pyramids but all to no avail, so we had practically to walk all the way.

When we reached the foot of the Pyramids we managed to get a camel and a donkey and have a joy-ride round the Pyramids and the Sphinx. Arrived home at 8 o’clock.

Soldiers being invalided home to Australia left here to embark on the "Ballarat" at Alex – only 6 patients left in No. 6 ward.

June 29th Sun.

Went to church. New minister present. Exceedingly hot to-day.

June 28th Mon.

Left off night duty.

June 29th 30th Wed.


[Page 80]
On duty in No. 6 ward.

Most of the British troops left hospital to-day.

Came across large numbers of camp stools which had pieces of carpet with patterns on them the same as I have often seen woven in Forthbank

July 1st 2nd Frid 3rd 4th Sun.

Went to communion in the Scots Church.

Large turn out of the Military. Womens Guild belonging to the church are going to entertain the soldiers who are in the habit of attending the church.

Walked along the promenade on the bank of the Nile.

[Transcriber’s note: Geizerah Place probably refers to Gezirah Palace.]

[Transcribed by Val Ridley for the State Library of New South Wales]
