DIARY 36

Mitchell Library, State Library of New South Wales

A.R.L. Wiltshire diary, 31 October-22 December 1918
MLMSS 3058/Box 2/Item 23

[Page 1] 
[Printed pages not transcribed]

[Page 2] 
[Printed pages not transcribed]

[Page 3] 
[Printed pages not transcribed]

[Page 4] 
[Printed pages not transcribed]

[Page 5] 
[Printed pages not transcribed: Field Message Book (For the use of Dismounted Regimental Officers and Non-commissioned Officers of Cavalry and Infantry) Army Book 153 and General Instructions from F.S. Regs., Part I. affecting preparation of Messages.]

31/10/18 Yzeux
Muirhead Field Ambulance called with a Daimler ambulance car at 9.30 and ran me over to Vause en-Amienois about 12 kilometres. The morning was rather raw and cold. Reaching Vause we found the 23rd well established in a comfortable set of huts and billets. The Chateau is a fine place and the mess a fine dark panelled room with stained glass windows. The massive sideboards other furniture and the friezes were all carved out of solid oak and would be most valuable I should think. Looked at a lot of huts and other places suitable for the Ambulance. Now went up to St Vast where my horse was waiting and stayed for lunch with the 22nd. After lunch went down to the Transport and saw our horses being schooled for the horse show. My chestnut is looking

[Page 6] 
31/10/18 Yzeux
well and nearly jumping out of her skin. Rode back to Yzeux – a dull grey afternoon. the little villages snuggling in hollows with curls of gray smoke rising from their chimneys. Very poor rickety kids in the streets. Found the General at Bde HQ on my return and very strong rumours that we go into the line once more in 3 weeks time. Brown has returned from leave and gave us his experiences at mess. Later we received word that Peace had been signed with Turkey as from noon today. Tomorrow General Rawlinson of the 4th Army will see us at DHQ to explain "the military aspects of the present situation". Also another conference at 1st DHQ to be presided over by the Corps Comdr. Generals Monash and Rosenthal have been recalled from leave.


[Page 7] 
1/11/18 Yzeux
A fine sunny day. I went down to the 24th Battalion and there, after some walking round, found Colonel James. After a yarn with him we walked home together along the main road noticing the hard working Chinese sawing up trees and road mending. Today is all Saints Day and the French people, dressed in their best clothes, are walking out to the cemeteries. After lunch I walked down to DHQ and cars of all divisions were flying up with their little flags flying. Yarned with Bazeley until Cols. Murphy & Chalmers arrived when I got into a fine car which a staff officer had and trotted them off to the Yzeux Chateau for afternoon tea. We then walked back to Belloy and heard that Austria had signed an armistice and I heard that our terms to Germany provide


[Page 8] 
1/11/18 Yzeux
for an evacuation to a line 30 miles behind the Rhine line, our occupation of Hamburg and Emden, the laying down of arms and surrendering of armament and the blockading of their fleet in Heligoland and the submarines in English & Mediterranean ports. It will be interesting to see later how much of it is true. At the Concert Hall in Belloy were gathered the Corps Comdr, all the Brigadiers & Div Comdrs of the AIF – a historic gathering. General Rawlinson spoke – a tall thin and incisive man. He said he was just back from the Supreme War Council in Paris and that he thought Peace was near perhaps days. That his Army was attacking again and that we must move up to play our part. General Monash said the 1st and 4th would move up first – early next week to


[Page 9] 
1/11/18 Yzeux
the forward area. Rawlinson said rests over 6 weeks caused staleness and that the Canadians had not done so well on that account. His speech was informative and precise and his manner that of a strong man. After the speech was over everyone buzzed off. Durrant secured a car which dumped me at my Chateau and then tooktook Murphy and Chalmers on to St Ouen and Vignacourt. At mess everyone talking on an early finish of the War and very optimistic in strain. From General Rawlinson's remarks we gather that he expects to use us up again if events do not move more rapidly than is at present anticipated. Darkness fell early and the night was dark and cold. Rumours of a French civilian murder at Longfre by one of our 22 men.


[Page 10]
2/11/ Yzeux
Raining this morning so stayed in all the morning. After lunch the General rang up rather obstructing the leave of James but I spoke to him and sent James off with a pass in his pocket. Then walked down to a ground the other side of Belloy and there saw the 24th and 22nd clash in a football match and 24 win. Stayed in all evening.

3/11/18 Rode over to St Vast. a dull grey morning trying to rain. Saw all my old friends there and hand lunch on the spot. Then went down to the Transport lines and had a look at our crack cooker and limber for the horse show. Rode back after and feeling unwell turned into bed. Another boil today. McColl & James both went on leave today. Bazeley from DHQ is here acting as BM.


[Page 11]
4/11/18 Yzeux
A day in bed. Bazeley went over to Flesselles to a platoon demonstration with me. The chief excitement was the visit of Brg. John Muirhead of the 6 Field Ambulance who gave me as thorough an overhauling as ever doctor gave patient. He said I want a change and spoke of a touch of anaemia !? Later on he sent up a nursing orderly who brought a Primus and bandages and who is to look after me.

5/11/18 A very wet day. Remained in bed. First visitor was General Robinson who made much ado about nothing and argued the point. Dr Jno Muirhead came next. Steady dull rain all day.

6/11/18. Wet again. Dr Muirhead & the G. called in the afternoon. 31 21st men who were posted to 5th Bn came back to 24 today and left their Div. Put them all under open arrest. They returned late alright.


[Page 12]
7/11/18 Yzeux
Another dull and inclement day. Got up after lunch and shaved off about 4 days beard. Sat in front of a fire. Word today among the French people that an armistice has been signed. Our Corps deny knowledge of it. Much goz among the civilians.

8/11/18. Fine but dull during morning but rain came on during afternoon. Got up after lunch. Horse show at St Vast today. To 4 pm I heard the 24th had won the best turned out limber but no other particulars as yet. Major Dr Jno Muirhead &Colonel Dr Savage came in to see me. The arrangements for todays horse show could have been better it seems. The 22nd won the cooker and the packs. Keith Sutherland came over to dinner with me tonight – a dear and capable little chap of whom I am very fond indeed. We read today in the paper of the Huns sending over their emissaries for peace.


[Page 13]
9/11/18 Yzeux
A fine sunny day. First event after getting up was a visit from the General who had little new to say. Took a turn in the garden. The trees are much barer but there are still enough autumn leaves left to make the view down to the Somme a very pleasant one indeed. The war news today is good and tells of the Huns being allowed 72 hours to conclude an armistice. Later a telephone message arrived from GHQ to say the Kaiser had abdicated and the Kronprinz did not want his job. Jack rode over from Vause and we had a long yarn before dinner about après la guerre and plans for the future. The education scheme promises to take up a great deal of our time in the days yet to come. In the air tonight is frost.


[Page 14]
10/11/18 Yzeux
A fine cloudless day with a sun getting feebler daily. Church parade in front of the Chateau. Fethers at the piano and Buckley preaching, was less funereal than usual. Matthews came over for lunch and we talked much of après la guerre. After lunch I went out for a walk over the north side of Flexecourt road. The woods are now practically bare except for a few shreds of autumn leaf yet hanging. The thinning of foliage makes one comprehend how densely populated the countryside is. Villages are frequent and church spires seen surprisingly often. Dening, MO was in the mess and had things of interest to relate re the treatment of our prisoners by the Huns. On 8 August Hun prisoners suffered much at our hands – bad day and bad water arrangements due to Army messing.


[Page 15]
11/11/18 Yzeux
General Robertson called for me in his car at 9.30 and we drove out to Vaux. Passing out through St Vast the slack saluting of the car was marked on my return. I up several people hard. Pulled up at the NCOs school at Vaux and found things going fairly well there. Then down to rifle range and saw the 23rd and 22nd at work on platoon competitions. The General dropped me at St Vast on his way back and I noticed Cox putting a message up on the board to the effect that the armistice had been definitely signed. Ordered the band out to parade the streets and to play the Marseillaise. Little French kiddies followed the band. Civilians gave flowers to the drummers. We then hoisted the Tricolour and the Australian flag side by side on the church


[Page 16]
11/11/18 Yzeux
and the troops rang the bell. "Thank Christ"! the general exclamation. Lunched at St Vast and remained for a football match. Then rode back via La Chaussee. An aged bent man carrying a drum was tottering along here – the town crier. In the streets were plenty of flags, civilians and Billjims were falling on each others necks. Many were drunk and an aged gendarme was standing in front of the church firing a shot gun. Met Leon Barbier who was much elated and passed many riotous souls as I neared the Chateau. At dinner all the officers took a glass of wine with me to celebrate the occasion. A furphey today that we move in 4 days time! Great joy in Amiens today – what a time the brave French have been looking forward to this day.


[Page 17]
12/11/18 Yzeux
Lovely day but cold wind. Rode to St Vast first seeing Greene's demonstration platoon. Saw boxers training. Last night the ball the boys gave the m'selles was a great success. I saw "K" Co do a tactical scheme and then lunched with the officers. Rode over to the 5th Bde sports at Vignacourt and saw a good many French people there. Our fellows are great friends with the local inhabitants and quite members of their families. Generals Robertson, Martin and Wisdom were there. One event was a race for French boys and girls and aroused great enthusiasm. Returned to St Vast for afternoon tea and then pushed off for Yzeux. A moonlight ride and the air cold. Terms of armistice announced in Daily Mail today. The French people all jubilant.


[Page 18]
13/11/18 Yzeux
Rode down to La Chausee to see the Brigade Competition for platoon championship. 24th won 22nd 2nd.After lunch General Robertson, Marin and myself motored over to 3rd DHQ at Hallencourt to attend their sports. Met General Cannon Jess and others and had an enjoyable day. Some Australian nurses out from Abbeville and a number of French ladies – some very nice. The sports were well run and arrangements excellent. Our run over in the car took an hour through pretty country and pleasant villages. Everyone elated. A feeling that a weight has been lifted off us. Tomorrow a conference of Divisional Commanders at Peronne and rumour says that 1, 5 & 2 Divisions move up and that 3rd remains behind. The reforming of the fourth battalions ought now to be seriously reconsidered.


[Page 19]
14/11/18 Yzeux
A frosty morning but fine. With Jackson I inspected the Signal School and gave them a speech about interest in work etc. At 10.15 left on horseback with Bazeley and others for the Foret de Vignacourt and a Divn. Horse Show. Acted as a judge there in different horse events. General Blamey was down from Corps and brought no news. The Transport turnout was good. The 22nd winning the watercart and the packs and securing third in the cooker. My chestnut did no good in hacks or races. Six nurses from Abbeville formed an agreeable distraction. During afternoon some wild boars were chased out of the forest and rushed across the field. Darkness closed a fine sunny day early but the chill of winter soon gets a grip on after 3 pm.


[Page 20]
15/11/18 Yzeux
White frost over all this morning. Set out with Bazeley at 9 am and rode across the stubble fields to St Vast. The winter has now stripped all the trees of leaves disclosing houses and villages that were hitherto hidden from view. A cold sun was drawing a wisp of mist out of the ground. Through St Vast to Vaux en Amiennois where at the Chateau I found Berth and Pascoe loafing in front of a fire when they should have been out on parade with their men. There is a steady drift in 23rd and the sooner Colonel Brazenor comes home the better. On our way back to St Vast we passed Greene and his platoon practising on the range for the afternoon competitions. Arrived at St Vast and yarned with all there until after lunch. Set out for Vignacourt in company with Matthews and other riding my chestnut which is full of fire and medheaded. Through the large


[Page 21]
15/11/18 Yzeux
town of Vignacourt to an aerodrome which is used as a theatre. Electric light and painted scenery. Lecture by General Sir Francis Younghusband KCSG, KCG on Thibet and the Himalayas – a fine interesting talk from an elderly man who knows his subject. The ‘drome was crowded. Generals Wisdom and Martin were also there. Afterwards a fast canter home passing through the Forest of Vignacourt now getting its desolate winter look. The ground mist rising from the Somme valley was like wreaths of fog. It was dark on reaching the Chateau at 5 pm. Sat in the anteroom of the mess and read papers and wrote until mess time. A day of outdoor work today and a keen appetite and tired muscles are the result. The chestnut tugs like the devil. Warm fire very agreeable this cold night.


[Page 22]
16/11/18 Yzeux
Fine sunny but desperately cold morning that chills one to the bone. Rode over to Vignacourt to another lecture by Sir Francis Younghusband and then over to lunch at St Vast and to attend the 22nd sports. It was desperately chilly here although the sun was brightly shining overhead. After a while here returned to Yzeux and had early mess going then to DHQ and having a yarn with General Robertson and Sir Francis Younghusband. The latter is interesting to talk to – an Empire builder and one of the better type of Englishmen. He had some interesting tales of Kitchener, Lloyd George and others. Like most influential Englishmen of the conservative class he does not like Ll. George. Walked home to Yzeux – bright frosty night and deadly cold that chills to the bone.


[Page 23]
17/11/18 Yzeux
A bitter cold raw dull day and Sunday. At 10.30 there was a conference at DHQ of Brigadiers CRA and all the heads. The subject of discussion was the advance to the Rhine and we are to be ready to move in 2 days time to Le Cateau first of all and then subsequently by route march over 100 miles to the Belgian German frontier. The entry into Germany is to be a triumphant and imposing one and we are to have flags flying and bands playing as we go along. Worded up the General for a little wad of leave and hope to get it & to find the Bde in Germany when I get back. Spent the afternoon over the fire at Bde H.Q.and had Col. Duggan to dinner in the evening. Called a conference at Unit Comdrs at 10.30 am in the morning at the Chateau of Tirancourt. Early dark and bitterly cold night.


[Page 24]
18/11/18 Yzeux
Another dull and raw day. With Brown walked to Tirancourt Chateau. A large room here was fitted up for our conference. A feature of the better class French houses is the elaborate furniture woodcarved which they contain. The amount of work put into carving and the value of the oak itself must be considerable. Held a conference of representatives of all units of the Brigade group and discussed our plans and orders for the move into Germany. Had a good stiff walk back to Yzeux in time for lunch. The change that has come over the landscape the last fortnight is remarkable. Now we have winter unadorned – not a leaf is on the trees and the bare and barren look of the place is desolation indeed. A very vivid contrast to the


[Page 25]
18/11/18 Yzeux
autumnal beauties. Had lunch and then walked down to Bourdon where the 6th Field Ambulance are. Saw Muirhead who wrote a prescription for me and had a yarn with Colonel Savage and the other doctors there. Everyone is now discussing earlythe events of the future. Returned to Yzeux and had afternoon tea. General Robertson had called while I was out to say that we are ordered to be ready to move at in 36 hours time. I hope James will be back from leave within that time and that my Riviera leave comes through. Otherwise I may have a trip to Le Cateau and then have to come right back to Amiens again. Almost quite dark now at 4.30 pm and the fireside is the most attractive place in the house.


[Page 26]
19/11/18 Yzeux
Rode over to St Vast and spent the morning there. Then rode on to Flessells and had a café with Georgette and her aunt. The kid cried horribly when I left poor little 17 year old. These French are so demonstrative. As her aunt says it is something to say that at least someone weeps for you! A very prettily situated village this but now all the leaves are off the trees. What a life to live here – always doing nothing. A long ride home in the dark. The entertainment takes place on 22nd at Vignacourt. Had a long argument with Georgette's uncle about Clemenceau. Foch & Co.Every Frenchman finds a reason for our victories in the unity of Command. McColl BM. & Colonel James are back from English leave today. Much milder in temperature today.


[Page 27]
20/11/18 Yzeux
A dense chill fog. Rode across to a ground near St Vast where the Divisional Platoon Championship was decided. The fog was too dense for it to take place until well afternoon. The 24th won thanks to an extraordinarily good L Gunner and the 22nd came second. James back from leave – had a good yarn to him. Lunched at 22nd and then rode back to Yzeux – the fog again coming up like a blanket. Stayed by the fire and read. Orders all busily in preparation for our shift to Fresnoy area. Bishop Frodshaw is staying at DHQ and had a few words with him about nothing much. Bazeley returned to DHQ. 24th have a lot of claims (4000 fr.) for wine etc alleged stolen.


[Page 28]
21/11/18 Yzeux
A sunny clear frosty morning. The trees very beautiful with all their twigs rime encrusted and white threads that were spider web hanging on the bushes. Walked down to La Chaussee by road to see Colonel James and found him out so walked back along the peaty low lying ground between the main road and the Somme. The ground gives off black water and a walking stick goes down many feet. Passing through Belloy met the 1st Div Arty on the march. Spent most of the afternoon in the Chateau except for a walk for the last time round the now familiar woods around here. Very cold it got towards dark. One Hay a Red Cross worker now attached to us here. He & a brother have drawn 1st prize in Tatts 1 of Corp sweep! Retired to bed early.


[Page 29]
22/11/18 Yzeux
A sunny day but ice over pools & white frost on the ground. The dark side of the house is to be avoided here but on the sunny side you get pleasant warmth from the sun even on the coldest day if the room is small and plenty of glass. Rode over the fields to St Vast and there met Pat Gorman and Harvey Thewlis who returned here today from the Base. A pleasant talk with them – both fine chaps. Back to Bde HQ for lunch and afterwards General Robertson came down en auto and yarned in his vague way for half an hour. Our brigade entrainment starts at 2 today but trains are late. A junction near Busigny blown up. They should get to Fritz for this – all mines should have long ago been indicated.


[Page 30]
22/11/18 Yxeux-Vignacourt
Spent the afternoon by the fireside. The trains being late there was nothing doing at all. At 11.30 pm left with McColl and rode over to Vignacourt. The night was frosty and bright clear moonlight. At the station found the place bright with fires lit by the troops and burning sleepers or anything else to burn. Flaring acetylene lights gave illumination for the entrainment of the horses and vehicles. A busy sight and much awful language.

23/11/18. Matthew's train pulled out at about 2 pm and we walked up and down until another came in. Carter had a YMCA cocoa stall. Boarded our train and had a wretched journey all day. Bitterly cold on the feet. Passed through Villers Bretonnieux and then up into new country to us – all desolated. Detrained at Beutoz not more than 5 miles from Busigny.


[Page 31]
23/11/18 Bohain
About 250,000 civilians are now being fed from this place. Great talk of the deplorable conditions of prisoners daily returning into our lines. Met a woman and her daughter at a house where we had coffee while waiting for our horses. They were full of enmity against the Huns and all the metalwork in the house had been requisitioned also their woolen & cotton garments. Paper garments replaced the latter. Had a long ride to Bohain & no one there could give us any news of where our billets were. Found DHQ collared the General's lamp. Woke the waiters and had a fine dinner of beef ofvegetables and sweets served in a fine oak panelled room with blazing fire. Plenty of whisky. Found orders for the Bde on the mantelpiece. We stay here a couple of days. My billet was occupied by a doctor. After searching round secured a bed.


[Page 32]
24/11/18 Bohain
Slept well in a warm bed set down in a poor room through which the two agreeable old folk who live here have to pass. They were up at dawn in the morning and offered me coffee. Another clear fine day. In the streets of this place are a fair number of miserable looking civilians. Billeted in the town are at least 2 Brigades. According to a furphey we are not now going to the Rhine but orders we found at DHQ last night provided for us getting on the move again on the 26th when we make a 10 mile trek followed by several others similar which will bring us on to the border. Our little adventure at DHQ last night was unique. To be wanderers in a cold street and suddenly to step into luxurious comfort and a sumptuous meal. It was a very fine room and a comfortable fire. The troops marched down from the station – a good march.


[Page 33]
24/11/18 Bohain
Had General Robertson along for a yarn after lunch and then James looked in. It was dark when we walked down to James' billet. The streets were crowded – a cinema show was thronged and the oldest profession in the world was having a busy time. Saw Beith of the 23rd and then walked up to the 22nd where I had dinner. The woman question is rather acute here and a great deal of VD is about. The Huns left all diseased women behind and our preventitives will be sure of a good sale. Round the fire at Bde H.Q. we talked about old battles all the evening. As a mob near the picture show seemed rather unruly I ordered an officers piquet to be on duty there tomorrow night.


[Page 34]
25/11/18 Bohain
A wet miserable day of drizzle. The 5th Bde marched out in it and looked very bad. Colonel Miles came around and mentioned points for us to avoid tomorrow. Went round to Matthews billet & had a yarn with him. The people were very agreeable and find it hard to realise that they are free. The woman of the house said they were down in the cellar when allied troops entered the village. She went up to get some water and saw an English soldier coming warily scouting along the street and realised that the Huns had gone for good. This morning in the streets there were many people returning to their houses pushing along little hand carts holding all their poor belongings – a few mattresses, blankets & chairs.


[Page 35]
25/11/18 Bohain
After lunch walked down to where the Brigade starting point is to be tomorrow. A foggy day and mud and slush everywhere. Passing motor lorries splashed mud over everyone. The local Hotel de Ville has been burnt down by the Huns. Streets crowded with all kinds of troops. A cinema show close to Bde HQ was crowded out and a large number of men were waiting in queue out in the street. Went down to the 24th and saw Selleck and then to the 22nd and had a talk to all of them up there – a good lot of chaps. Jack came along to mess and spent the evening with me. Brown & Hislop have had a very busy day engaged on details covering rations and finding billets for the Brigade group tomorrow. A mine blew up the railway near Cambrai.


[Page 36]
26/11/18 Bohain
It was dark at 6.15 when Charlesworth called me but daylight grew during shaving time. A dull day but fine and the sun will likely shine out later. Breakfasted at 7 am and all the signs symptoms and evidences of moving day were about. Men running round with packs and other gear and everyone busy & restless. Not having moved in route march for some time as a Brigade it will be rather interesting to see today how long different sized columns take to pass certain points. The present strengths of Bns are about 22nd 530 23rd 560 24th 870. No rations have come to hand and the troops are only rationed up to tonight owing to a mine having blown up the railway line somewhere near Cambrai. Hislop Bde Bomb Officer is a good youth with plenty of sense.


[Page 37]
26/11/18 St Souplet
The brigade passed its starting point at 9.30 pm and on the whole was turned out well. With BM McColl stood by the side of the road and watched all go past. Fog came down and we could not see far ahead. The Battalions all carrying their colours and flags. General Robertson was at a x roads and I met him there and again watched the column go past. We got into the village of St Souplet – a place which had been well knocked about by the guns. Had a few sandwiches and then to horse again and rode through St Benin to Le Cateau. En route passed a large high railway bridge demolished. It had rested on high masonry piers but an explosion had ruined the whole of it. Coming into Le Cateau saw duds being blown up by electricity. The cobble stones


[Page 38]
26/11/18 St Souplet – Le Cateau
were very slippery. Plenty of troops were in the town of Le Cateau & it does not seem much damaged. The church has two quaint towers and has been shelled. Pushed on to Corps Headquarters and there attended a conference of all the Brigadiers and Divnl commanders of the AIF – a historic gathering. Had a talk to General Gellibrand who was in good form. Saw General Birdwood and had a short yarn with him. He made a speech saying John Monash was to go to England as Demobilization Director and that Sir John Hobbs was to command the Corps. Discussed all the plans for demobilization. Returned to Bde. at dark & held a conference. Brazenor back. Arranged for car at 10 tomorrow.


[Page 39]
27/11/18 St Souplet
Note: photocopied page cut off so not 100% certain of date
Very raw and cold at dawn when called by batman. Rose shaved and had breakfast by 7 o‘c. All bustle and stir prior to move on to the Favriel area. Brazenor came in and we had a long yarn as I handed over command of the Brigade to him. At this billet there is a very old man of 70 and his wife who are living in the most utter misery – cold, short of food and with their only son dead. They expected a golden age when the armistice came but find that things are still bad. War is very terrible to poor people like this. A car was coming from DHQ to pick me up here and take me as far on my journey as Amiens at 10.30 but at 11 there is still no sign of it. Waited a long time and then took a walk down to the Town Mayors Office to see if he had a phone and then tried to


[Page 40]
27/11/18 Note: photocopied page cut off so not certain of date; cannot read enough of place
raise 2nd Aus Div through the HQ Bde. of RAH but without success. Returning to the billet I found the car waiting. Jumped aboard and sailed off in style lounging back in the glass covered auto of the Divisional General with an aide de camp in front. Roads were rather bad. A dreadful stretch of desolating land had to be traversed – all the villages obliterated or in ruins. Poor people poking about the few stones of their homes. There were many gangs of German prisoners at work on the roads. Came through sideroads until we found Villers Bret. and then into Amiens. After an hours wait took train at Amiens station at 3.55 for Paris. Crowds of Yanks aboard. Three as travelling companions and a few spiffing Frenchmen butted in "La Guerre fini" the staple remark. Feeling very unwell with


[Page 41]
27/11/18
a bad cold. Reached Paris at 7.45 pm and had a great hunt for taxi a small boy contemptuous of 2c tip found a taxi at last. Drove to Hotel Continental and secured a room. Many places decorated with flags ready for the visit of King George V tomorrow. Streets brightly alight and electric signs in evidence – a great change. Left Continental and walked out to dinner. Noticed Vendome Column sandbagged at base. Went to Arrigones in Boullevardde Italiens for dinner – a good one soup de poisson, fish and a pint of Chianti 9 fr 35. Amusing to watch the gesticulations of diners. Returning to hotel noticed nice little girls plying their trade and many [indecipherable] Parissienes with escorts. All daintly charming with a chicness that is all their own & which the miss of England lacks. Bed 10.30 – a long day.


[Page 42]
28/11/18 Paris
Had a troubled night's rest as the room was overheated and I had a feverish cold. However a good sweat seemed to do me good and I felt better after a hot bath. Went down to a breakfast of chocolate and eggs – very dear. Then to a chemists in the Place Vendome which was a mass of flags and royal arms. Unfortunately the rain which was a persistent drizzle spoilt things rather. Through the Rue de la Paix to the Opera and had a look at the Statue of Dance which is said to be rather ‘abandoned'. Took tube at the Opera for Gare de Lyon. A trip in the Paris tube is always a pleasure so clean and efficient – a great contrast to London. At Gare de Lyon booked through to Monte Carlo & reserved a seat. Returned to the Continental for a lunch of tongue salad and a bottle of


[Page 43]
28/11/18 Paris
beer – 11 francs and 1 fr. tip (10/-). The rain was coming down quite heavily as I walked down to the Place de la Concorde all beflagged and crowded with captured Hun guns. Crowds were assembling and there were plenty of soldiers of the Republican Guard with their brass helmets. Walked down the Champs Elysees where enterprising people were selling chairs and other stands. After a fairly long wait a cannon sounded cheering started and His Insignificant Majesty King George V drove past with M Poincaire as companion. Following him came the Prince of Wales and Prince Albert. In front were soldiers of the Guard and blue helmeted mounted poilus lined the street. Now took the tube to St Germain de Pres a very old old church and dark


[Page 44]
28/11/18 Paris
within. Old people creeping about "this tomb" and old people sitting in chairs to sell candles & relics. Now marching on the map to the Church of St Sulpice – an immense place and not so dull. Again noticed old age by devotion trying to ensure good things after death. Walked down to the Jardins de Luxembourg now desolate and winter dreary. Now to Boulevard St Michel and past the Cluny Museum. Cafes gaily lit up. Smart officers & pretty girls. Yanks everywhere. Tubed home from Odeon there were great crowds about the whole place. Did soon arrive at the Continental. Took taxi for Gare de Lyon at 7. with some American sisters as companions. Found my reserved seat in the train for Nice and got a pillow and blanket for 4 fr.


[Page 45]
29/11/19 en route Marseilles
A troubled night. Slept in snatches sitting up in my seat with a rather charming mademoiselle sitting just opposite. She was well dressed and agreeable – later turning out to be a Madame with a little girl aged 4 and the wife of a French naval officer at Toulon. An elderly Frenchman of independent means and his wife were also travelling and were very agreeable to talk to. We passed Lyons in the dark and as soon as dawn came found ourselves running along the RhoneValley. Breakfasted in the restaurant car and made the acquaintance of 3 Australian nurses. The country now underwent a change becoming more hilly and rocky as we reached Avignon. The sun now began to shine out warmly and we were conscious of entering a new country – a land of sun and of pleasure. This is


[Page 46]
29/11/19 Marseilles
a wonderful contrast to up North. Green trees in full leaf – a grand sight. After running through rather rocky barren country abounding in funny old castles we swung out on to flatter land with many vines. Made Marseilles at noon and got a basket from the buffet. One does not get a good view of the city. The railway now ran along the sea and the sun was hot. At Toulon handed Madame of the opposite seat over to her husband a Commodore in the French Navy. The country from now on was very lovely. We came into St Raphael in daylight. The Corniche d'or commences here and a road fringes the sea the whole way. Many beautiful bays and fine villas. Green trees abound. Reached Nice at 6 and the old French couple who were so friendly got out and I had the place to myself. The


[Page 47]
29/11/18 Nice
train is cut in half at Nice and waits half an hour. The wagon restaurant or dining car has had a wonderful day bfast today going all day long. The journey from Nice to Monte Carlo did not take long and I found a charabanc at the station which ran me up to the Monte Carlo Palace Hotel a fine place where only a few people seemed to be staying. At dinner there were not many people at all. Two girls in a family party were smoking and "making up" at the table. This place is in the Principality of Monaco and an independent state. The Casino is going in full swing and some of the people from here went down during the evening. I wrote and read for a while and then retired early to my room to make up by a good sleep tonight for what I lost last night.


[Page 48]
30/11/18 Monte Carlo
Beautiful sunny day like Australian spring. Went down to the Casino only a short distance through streets all lined with palms and other tropical trees. The Casino is a fine building all white and there were crowds of Americans concentrating to see it. Went in the main door and through all the different gambling rooms. There are not many tables but there is plenty of room for spectators. The little money rakes were lying on the tables – the wheels are very smooth running and flat on the tables. Saw the richly decorated little theatre. Went out on the terraces overlooking the bluest of seas. The mountains rise steeply behind the town white patches of rock. In the distance one sees other towns breasting the water's edge all their buildings snow white. The highest peaks of a chain


[Page 49]
30/11/18 Monte Carlo
East of the town represent the frontier between Italy & France. Many Australian trees flourish here. Trams run hourly to Cap Martin and Mentone so I took one and had a pleasant ride. From about halfway one could look back and see the town of Monte Carlo clustered up the hillside. Rounding Cap Martin came into Mentone which is extremely pretty with high fog wreathed mountains and all terraced. There were many French black troops here and they seem to occupy unused hotels as barracks. Towering over the town is the luxurious Riviera Palace Hotel – a magnificent place embowered in lovely gardens. I lunched here. It is about the most palatial hotel I have ever seen. The view of headland and sea from the windows of the


[Page 50]
30/11/18 Mentone & Monte Carlo
Banquet Hall reminded me of Mount Lavinia in Ceylon. In the gardens were a good many flowering gums. Returned to Monte Carlo about 3 and just in time for an orchestral concert in the theatre of the Casino. There was a good audience and the music was first class. A good many English speaking people other than the multitude of Americans. After another stroll on the terraces went into the Atrium of the Casino which is a sort of lounge. A good crowd appeared to be thronging into the gambling rooms. A few little "ships passing in the night". Taken all round things are dead quiet in Monte Carlo. Shall voyage into Nice tomorrow and see what is doing there. Things livened up considerably after dinner. The usual party was there and


[Page 51]
1/12/18 Monte Carlo
Another fine day sitting out in front of the Casino admiring the moonshaped bay swinging round to Cap Martin when who should come up but Davis and his wife with him. Got aboard the Nice tram at 10.These trams creak and squeal all the journey. The run down to Monaco and then on to Nice is gorgeous – high cliffs, hundreds of white villas and deep blue sea. Reached Nice about 11.30. Passing through the old part of the city we came on a square and it flashed through my mind how like a square in Turin it was. Just then I noticed that the chief café in the square was Café de Torino. The whole town of Nice is strongly reminiscent of Turin with its arcades. Left my coat in Hotel Ruhl & Anglais and took a promenade on the far


[Page 52]
1/12/18 Nice
famed Promenade de les Anglais. It fronts the sea and is lined with palms. The lovely warm sun had enticed everyone out and it was a very chic crowd that was walking up and down. Crowds of Americans and many French officers. The latter all gay with their decorations. For lunch went to the Hotel Negresco which is a most palatial place wonderfully furnished and the acme of luxury. They charged me for a moderate lunch 16 fr. plus 1.50 fr = 17.50 fr = 14/2!!! Continued the promenading after lunch and had a conversation with a piece of impertinence who had spent long time in Morocco. She said she was available did I need a cicerone for Cannes or Antibes. Returned to Monte Carlo about 8.30 and went to the Casino. It was


[Page 53]
1/12/18 Monte Carlo
crowded and very gay. (By the way today was Sunday!) Met some staff officers there from Cap Martin and arranged to dine with them on Wednesday. After dinner things were deadly quiet and I determined to clear off to Nice in the morning.

2/12/18 Another lovely morning. The bright sun shining right into the room. Paid bill and walked round the Casino for the last time. The view all round this place is simply superb. The whole place is swept and garnished two or three times daily – not matches or cigarette butts even are left lying round. The quaintly uniformed guard look to the cleaning up of all. Caught the train at 10.30 and rather enjoyed a little cinema drama. Evidently they were making a film and doing the parting at


[Page 54]
2/12/18 Monte Carlo - Nice
Monte Carlo right on the spot. The dresses of some of the ladies were daring. Reached Nice at 11.30 and was driven to the Hotel du Luxembourg which is a poor place badly furnished. Decided to have all my meals out. Put in a considerable portion of the day lounging in the sun on the Promenade des Anglais with occasional excursions up the streets. Put in an interesting trip round the Galeries Lafayette hoping to buy a piece of Mons ribbon. The shop was crowded. Darkness comes up at 4. At 6 I went down to the Hotel Ruhl & Anglais which is very select and expensive – a gay crowd here. Dinner very elaborate cost 21 fr. including the tip. Afterwards took a walk and met the tiniest of little Parisiennes out for a walk. Did not reach hotel until 11.30 & soon fell to sleep tired out.


[Page 55]
3/12/18 Nice
Bedroom flooded with bright warm sunlight though the day is inclined to be hazy. Went out on to the Promenade des Anglais and read the "Petit Nicois" sitting basking in the sun. Took a walk down to the station and located the APM. After lunch went out on the Prom. again and had a long talk with a little girl who turned out to be a Pole but educated in France. Her father was taking his apperitif and we had a long yarn. Very convenable & proper she did not hesitate to discuss the stupides. Dined at Ruhl et Anglais and had a long yarn with a Lieutenant of Artillery from New York City. The view from the prom is very fine – one horn of the Bay des Angles is [indecipherable] Hill and the other is Californie. Very beautiful English uniforms a rarety here. [indecipherable].


[Page 56]
4/12/18 Nice
Another fine day but inclined to be hazy and here is how I loafed it away. Stayed in bed till 9 and then had chocolate and a roll before going up the Avenue de la Gare to buy a local paper. Returned to Promenade des Anglais there to bask in the sun and read the latest news till lunch. Watched the crowd passing and repassing and then went to the Hotel Westminster for lunch. After repeated the performance meeting a Yank Lt and walking with him and having an adventure with two little Nicois – walkon walkoff actresses at Les Varieties. To Yank YMCA in Casino until 7.30 and then dined well and dearly at the Hotel Ruhl et Anglais. This is one of the finest hotels to be met with anywhere & admirable cusine. Few people about the streets as I returned to room at Hotel du Luxembourg.


[Page 57]
5/12/18 Nice
After a cup of chocolate set off at 9.30 for a walk up the street and to buy a local paper with all the latest news. Took it and sat on a seat on the Promenade des Anglais in the beautiful radiant sun. At 10.30 paid my bill and took the hotel omnibus to the station where I found that the reservation of my seat was only as far as Marseilles. However there was a Yank Colonel on the train who was not using a ticket he had so he gave it to me. The view around Les Antibes was very fine. Had a long conversation with a French Major who was wearing the Legion of Honour Croix de Guerre, DSO & MC. He spoke perfect English and was liaisason officer between Generals Foch and Haig – consequently well in the know. The scenery round Cannes was very fine and thereafter


[Page 58]
5/12/18 Cannes
as we went along lovely little glimpses of landlocked bays & little islands kept coming into view. Dined on the restaurant car with 3 French people – one a very corpulent & not overclean cure. Yarned again with the nurses until Marseilles where I changed trains and after a bit of rushing about at last got settled down in a carriage with an old French couple and officers of French Infantry and one of their Flying Corps. On all the trains here there are plenty of Americans. The journey homeall night was the usual tiring and fatiguing one. Had dinner in the dining car and an animated conversation with a very dainty little Parisienne who was sitting at the same table. Later she was in deep conversation with a Japanese officer – evidently her cicerone.


[Page 59]
6/12/18 Paris
The train was about 2 hours late when we were at La Roche and could not make it up. From the green leaf and sun of the South to the fog and bareness of the North was a transition that was very evident this morning. We pulled into the Gare du Nord at about 10 and I tubed to the Tuileries and then walked to the Continental where my room was reserved. It was fortunate that I had wired for it from Nice as I heard them turning other people away. Good room and bathroom 25 fr a day – another instance of the cost of living. The hotel is kept almost oppressively hot by steam heating. Walked round to the Place du Marche St Honore and reported to the OC Troops. Then walked up to the Avenue de l'Opera where battalions of blue coated poilus were depiling. They halted piled


[Page 60]
[date and place have not been photocopied/or cut off]
arms and made a very neat job of piling their packs & rifles. Did a little shopping and returned to lunch at the hotel. Afterwards again went up to Avenue de l'Opera where crowds were gathering and got a good position on an "island". The girls at upper windows amused themselves throwing down money eatables and cigarettes to the poilus lining the streets. One lady won much applause by walking along with a big box of cigars letting the men help themselves. A good natured crowd. The scene looking up to the Opera was a memorable one the fine street all bedecked with flags – lovely buildings. After a big crowd of gendarmes coming along a motor dashed by with M Clemenceau in it. Soon after came gendarmes on bicycles and then a prancing escort of dragoons of the Republican Guard. In a


[Page 61]
6/12/18 Paris
carriage following was King Albert of Belgium and M Proncare – Albert looked worried. The queen was in the next carriage and the Crown Prince in the one following. After the procession had passed various battalions started marching home – some cavalry and lancers passed all very smart & capable and all in the ordinary horizon blue & steel helmets. Booked a seat at Thais tomorrow night and walked down past Café de la Paix for a block. After a roam around Bvd des Italiens came back to Rue de la Paix now very brilliantly illuminated many of the modistes having bright electric signs out. There is an enormous amount of wealth in this street. In the twilight a battalion of chasseurs marched past with a band and raised tremendous enthusiasm. They march with a


[Page 62]
6/12/18 Paris
short sharp quick trot like step. The midinettes crowded to the windows over the street and the air was full of acclamations. I stood next to an old vanman in the street. He said "We fete them for they have won after 4 years. Two boys of mine are killed". Returned to hotel passing many beautifully dressed girls. After writing for a while set out again up the street. There were great illuminations tonight. The Opera Square was full of electric signs and the Place Vendome also very gay indeed. Quite a blaze of light everywhere. Went to Arrigonis Café Italiens and dined well having as neighbours at the next table 2 American officers with two girls. All very well oiled. Had a long yarn with them and then pushed off down the thronged and lighted boulevards through the Place Vendome back to hotel. A ¼ bottle Chianti has a great effect on one.


[Page 63]
7/12/18 Paris
Rather dull morning. First tubed up to Gare du Nord and there saw the RSO. The busy station as usual crowded with French & American troops. Set off on a little tour of exploration round the Rue LaFayette but soon took a ‘bus back to the Opera. The usual crowd was outside the Printemps and other big shops. Near the Opera bought a seat for Faust on Sunday night. Then to hotel and then by tube to Boulevard Michel. Found the Cluny closed and then had a fine lunch for 6 francs. Oysters fish and coffee. Walked over to Notre Dame and found it as sombre as ever. An old man holding out the holy water brush and a nun soliciting alms for the poor. Taper sellers and others live all day in this dark cold place. Met some American nurses and took them over to Sainte Chapelle now quite


[Page 64]
7/12/18 Paris
different as all the glass has been removed. Got through into the Law Courts and saw the lawyers walking up and down. By cheek got into the Supreme Court – lovely ceiling and decorations. Now saw where Bolo was tried and then went across to St Severin a very old church dated 600 AD and with fine stained glass windows. Through to the back to St Julien des Pauvres which is also an old place and the chief Greek church in Paris. Now to the Sorbonne and Church of the Sorbonne where we saw Richlieu's tomb with his hat hanging over it and then up to the Pantheon which was closed. Noticed the statue of Le Pensura. Now went to the church of St Genieve (?) where we saw her shrine surrounded by candles – a very pretty little church this. Walked down to Bde Mich


[Page 65]
7/12/18 Paris
and there left the nurses. Got lost after wandering among the old booksellers boxes and ended up at Gare du Orleans. Tubed to Opera bought the book of Faust and then returned to hotel. Went to Arrigonis for dinner and then to the Opera to see "Thais". Had a few words with a very insolent elderly doorkeeper and came near to knocking him right down the marble staircase. Had a fairly good seat next to some Yank VDVADs and we were soon friends. The house was crowded and there were any number of English speaking people there. A very fine dancer in the "divertissement". The scenery & music of this play are both very fine indeed. Walked back at 11 along the Rue de la Paix to my hotel and then read for a while before going to sleep – a tiring day.


[Page 66]
8/12/18 Paris
Got out at 9.30 and took the tube to Marbeuf. All the Champs Elysees down as far as the Arc de Triomphe is lined with captured enemy guns. Walked a long way up the Rue de la Boetie and found Hotel Rocheufauld looking for Sisters Wilson & Morton. They had just left so I went off chasing up to the Gare St Lazare where they were waiting to put their baggage in the consigne. Found them and then walked down to the Madeline where we went inside in time to hear High Mass commence. An old man wearing a skull cap sits at the entrance of the church holding a holy water brush out. A bearded priest in gorgeous vestments walked in procession in through the church waving a spray of incense or holy water. He was preceded by an old beadle in cocked hat who struck the pavement heavily with his staff as


[Page 67]
8/12/18 Paris 
he swung along. From here we took tube to Abesses and walked up through picturesque slums of Montmartre to the Eglise Sacre Coeur which crowns the height. The day was slightly foggy so the view was spoiled. Inside the big church is by no means bare and many hundreds of candles were burning. Now returned to tube & so to Opera. Walked to Arrigonis where we lunched well and then by metro to Cite. Had a look at the Conciergerie and then to Notre Dame which lighted up looked better than ever before. A bishop in crozier mitre and golden vestments was conducting a ceremony. To St Julien Les Pauvres and St Severin. At the latter there were crowds of nuns and novices and a cleric was delivering an eloquent sermon. We then walked down Boul Mich and tubed back to Opera


[Page 68]
8/12/18 Paris
where I left the nurses. To hotel. the Place del'Opera and Rue de la Paix very crowded. Had a rest in the hotel wrote and read up the story of Faust for tonight. Went to the Opera after dinner hurriedly taken at Arrigonis. Arrived just in time and had a seat between two French girls and a civilian. Close up to the orchestra and a splendid position. "Faust" was rendered splendidly and an excellent ballet was also included in the bill. Between acts walked down into the foyer which brilliantly illuminated is a very fine hall. Everyone who is anyone walking up and down here. The concluding scene of Faust was much differently staged to the representation I saw at Florence. The interior decorations woodwork carving etc. of the Opera pass description. Returned to the hotel just before midnight.


[Page 69]
9/12/18 Paris - Caudry
Awoke at 7 and shaved. Paid bill and taxied to Gare du Nord. Took a walk round the streets here before finally taking seat. Had an uneventful and quick journey to Amiens. Left Paris 9.30 – Arrived Amiens at 11.30. Went straight to consigne dumped bag and then up to Hotel de la Paix for a bite of lunch. Met a Major of the RAF who gave me a lift to Peronne in his car – a quick ride. There caught at once a motor lorry or bus and had a dreadfully jolty ride to Caudry which we reached at 6.30 about 80-100 miles by road. The journey from Paris to Caudry just about a record I think! Saw Town Major, got a billet, bought some food from GFC and had hot tea and hot food at church. Many old soldiers. Turned into bed with a subaltern of the 4th Divisional Artillery.


[Page 70]
10/12/18 Caudry
Awoke and up at 8.30. The Canadian Town Major presented us with a good breakfast. Lorryhopped to Le Cateau and there caught another which took us to Landrecies. Changed lorries here into an artillery column and went on to Avesnes. the country now began to undergo a remarkable change becoming enclosed. Very green and covered with hedges – just like Somersetshire. Rain commenced now. Made for 4th Div. When at Avesnes lunched and then went to Corps HQ where I found out the location of the battalion. Returning down the street met a YMCA man and had afternoon tea at their HQ. A 6th 
Btl car drove up then and took me out to the very little hamlet of Bologne – not unlike Selles. Had a yarn to the General and then back to Mess. Bean spent the evening getting history from us.


[Page 71]
11/12/18 Boulogne
A wet morning. Spent it in walking around the streets and lanes of this truly rural hamlet inspecting the company lines and talking to officers and men there. Rations are not too good at all. The country is all enclosed hedges and quite like Selles and like Taunton. People have not had a bad time. We run two messes for the officers. HQ A & B at one and C & D at the other. The afternoon was also very wet. Hutton came back from Charleroi which he says is a splendid fine town and in full swing. We shall 13 kilos out and Mayer says cognac & other liquor is frequent. Warmed to the French people at my billet they have a peculiar accent & patois. Got very little news from the Huns during their occupation. Wrote letters all evening.


[Page 72]
12/12/18 Boulogne
Another very wet and beastly day. Went up the winding road into the little hamlet as above and found Colonel James at his billet. After a yarn we walked down to Bde. and there met Generals Rosenthal & Robertson. Inspected transport all the morning and had a sort of conference about doings when we get as far forward as Charleroi. Walked back to billets and lunched. In spite of pouring rain a few of our sports enthusiasts were hard at their training running up & down the roads. The buildings around here all have very low rooves and no windows practically. Classes on the go all the morning for telegraphy, English and other educational subjects. If the weather were at all fine things would be different. A claim today for a duckhouse pinched!! Jack dined here.


[Page 73]
13/12/18 Boulogne
Another inclement day but fortunately a little finer. Went down to "D" Co who are quite a step down the road. Saw Groves and the others but everyone is loafing about under the influence of nothing to do and all day to do it in. Afternoon some home mail came. Two football matches played in wet grassy fields hedge surrounded and forming a bleak looking picture. Shall not be sorry when moving day comes and takes us away from here.
14/12/18
Much finer. The sun came out for awhile in the morning. Visited A & B Coys. and had a talk to different people. At 2.15 went down to the village and attended a meeting of all Bde. officers under presidency of General Rosenthal. Talk about Charleroi. Had afternoon tea with the General Colonels James and Savage. After mess attended a meeting of mess and then an A Co concert.


[Page 74]
15/12/18 Boulogne
Sunday. A much finer and milder day. There was a voluntary church service held by Padre Blood at the HQ billet and at 11 I held a conference of 
OCs QSM & IO at the mess and discussed matters regarding future shifts. After lunch took the Keithlet for a ride through Avesnes out on to the main road which we have to take on Tuesday. This country is remarkably like Somerset and from one place just before entering Avesnes there is a fine glimpse of gentle undulating old world scenery. Through Avesnes – quite a good town with several old world buildings and twisting cobbled streets. Rode home in time to see a thrilling football match between A Coy & B. Pay night tonight. Spent part of the evening watching Pat Gorman writing his history which is now completed up to Ville-sur-Ancre.


[Page 75]
16/12/18 Boulogne
Full marching order parades and lectures to the men but the rain came down pretty constantly throughout the morning. Inspected the personnel of the Transport Section and found them below standard. Told Edwards he was for a company and put Thewlis on in his place. Had a talk to Harricks about "C" Coy. and then did some correcting of the Battn. history. The whole of the afternoon put in at reading and writing. The comedy of the duckhouse still continues and tonight Gorman, a g.s. wagon and the pioneers are to figure in its reconstruction. There is some dissatisfaction regarding the present running of the mess and tomorrow night we hold a mess meeting to discuss it. The Keithlet brought the usual mass of papers a little earlier.


[Page 76]
17/12/18 Boulogne
Up at dawn – a wet and cheerless one that augers ill for the march today. Everyone was soon very busy packing up and cleaning up. The cheerful crackle of waste cartridges in the fire – a wonder no one has yet been hurt by this means. At 8.35 a shower blew up so I ordered coats and waterproof sheets. We pass our starting point at 9 and make our own way up to Avesnes where we shall pick up the Bde. column and swing into place behind the 24th. Passed our point and marched to Avesnes via winding narrow & hedge lined lanes. The tower of the church insert drawing here square and solid is a prominent land mark. At the corner here Generals Rosenthal and Robertson were waiting. Called the Battalion to attention and they went past in fine style. The colour party consisted of Pte M N


[Page 77]
17/12/18 Boulogne – Solre Le Chateau
Cowan DCM MM and Sgt T.G. Strachan DCM MM with young Bugler Snaith. An Australian ensign and the Battalion colors were carried. We halted at Feullieres and formed up on a piece of vacant ground for lunch. On moving off again a crowd of funny little kids followed the band. The country we passed through must be very pretty in springtime and pleasant smooth and charmingly old world. We reached Solre-le-Chateau just before dark and the men swung in at attention through a lot of spectators in a way that gained them fresh commendation. The church there is about the most prominent feature and must be hundreds of years old. The tower is bulbous and has a Flemish look. Low down in it is the main door of the church. The square is all


[Page 78]
17/12/18 Solre-Le-Chateau
cobbled and surrounded with old tiled houses not unlike old Bailleul. All were soon settled down in their billets here. I had a cosy room with a folding bed. The streets thronged with troops for the whole Brigade is lodged here. Issued orders for our early start tomorrow. Mess was held in two fine connected rooms with a roaring coal fire and an Australian mail came to hand afterwards filling in the evening pleasurably. The old winding streets of the village were full of men until a late hour. Re the notorious duckhouse – last night Gorman waited till the moon went in and then with of G.S. acquired a good lot of timber from near a bridge. This morning our Pioneers rebuilt the place and the Maire gave us a clearance. All now hope this closes the affair.


[Page 79]
18/12/18 Solre-le-Chateau – Solre St Gery
Spent a sleepless night and had to get up several times. It rained nearly constantly. Up at 5.30 am in the pitch dark and shaved and breakfasted. Went into the old church which is a fair sized place with good stained glass windows. The usual side chapels had candles burning in them even at this early hour and there was more than one silent worshipper. The rain was coming down in cold sheets and a more wretched day it would hard to imagine. Set off in column of route at 8.30 am and had a bit of trouble with roads owing to some engineer pontoon wagons getting bogged. Plugged on steadily through the rain passing through country that must be very pretty in peace time. At 11 am we left France and found ourselves in Belgium. A post with red and black stripes and indicating a Douane Belge marked the frontier. From


[Page 80]
18/12/18 Solre-St-Gery - Barbencon
here on a good many of the signs were marked in French & Flemish. Just before coming to a fine large leafless forest we came upon a perfectly good 77mm gun left by the roadside. It bore a legend that it was captured at 11 am 11/11/18 and marked the furthest limit of English advance by fighting. We wound our way into the poor village of Solre St Gery and then across pretty country to Barbencon. In all today's march was about 11 miles. Soon settled in billets. Cleaner houses and cleaner kitchen utensils show we are among the Belges. The people look & speak different to the French. One feels their hatred of the Germans is only lukewarm. After mess enjoyed the "Times" and then returned to billet and yarned in living room with the hard working people. On their own admission they own 80 acres @ £120 per acre.


[Page 81]
19/12/18 Barbancon
Not much sleep again. Rose at dawn more rain. The people of the house up and for all their £10000 fortune Mme & Mlle were working the separator or "turbine". Batmen busy packing up and putting valises & blankets on the wagons. We marched out of the village at 8.30 colours flying and band playing. There was a gleam only of sunshine. Plugged along the main road and then turned up to Castillon. The clouds now came over all and we had driving showers of hail and sleet. The roads covered with a soupy creamy mud. The weather cleared just as we passed General Rosenthal who was lying in wait for us. Came up to Rognie marching well and [indecipherable]. From here we made for Thy-le-Chateau a big place alongside the railway but with factories from which all the machinery had been removed.


[Page 82]
page has no date, no place, but this calculation:
8.9.6

32) 169.6(5
40
9


[Page 83]
19/12/18 Gourdinne
We entered Gourdinne at 1.30 pm and found the place not too bad. I am lodged with the owners of the brasserie. Found the Marie's place – a rich man evidently. Had something to eat here and then went over to the mess. Drank wine with some people at the local school and then had long talks with people about all the atrocities at Louvain & which they substantiated. Everyone seems to be well lodged here and quite comfortable. the village is clean and the houses ditto. Some are sewered and in nearly all there is electric light. I wrote and read after mess at the billet. The place is beautifully comfortable and the people seem to have plenty of money. There is every convenience in the house and yet the people do not seem to get much of real pleasure out of their money.


[Page 84]
20/12/18 Gourdinne
A cold day with showers. Walked around the village getting to know it thoroughly and becoming satisfied that it is one of the best we have been in and that the barns and so on of stone are a great improvement on the wattle and daub of France. The people are scrupulously clean in their houses and raise their hands in holy horror at the dirtiness of the French. The General arrived cold and wet about 11 am and I took him off to the Burgomaster's billet where we had café. They insisted on our going right in and dining with the people themselves or rather taking coffee with them. After lunch the day became very dark so I returned to my billet and spent nearly all the afternoon yarning with the people there and the son who is a brewer


[Page 85]
20/12/18 Gourdinne
and learned his trade in the town of Bruxelles. At 4.30 we had a full meeting of the mess and had a good discussion of all matters connected with it which quite cleared the air. After that it was just time for mess. Smith was elected secretary of the mess and a strong committee backs him up. Returned to my billet after and yarned with the Madame there about the cost of living and the price of things. 12 francs a reel for cotton, 200 francs a pair for boots, 1600 francs for a stylish suit of clothes. Yet sugar & coffee seem plentiful and the meals the people eat are liberal enough. They say they have never lacked meat and the cultivators have always done well by being producers and having their own produce to eat.


[Page 86]
21/12/18 Gourdinne
Finer today. Did a round of the billets and found the rifles much below standard and the latrines in a bad way. Roused up a number of people. The village is a prosperous and substantial place and I should say that the people are in general very well off. Gorman returned in the early afternoon having been up to Bruxelles and been successful in securing the necessary blocks for our dinner menus. This day we sent an increased leave party into Charleroi. Madame's daughter from Charleroi came in at lunch time and is a fine looking woman but rather inclined to stoutness. Rode over to Nalinnes to Bde. HQ and had afternoon tea with General Robertson. Gullasch and others came in then. The Prince of Wales is now attached to our Corps and is moving around a lot .


[Page 87]
21/12/18 Gourdinne
For our Xmas dinners we require a great deal of crockery which up to date we have not been able to procure as it is difficult to put hands on it. Am sending both Gorman and Hutton off on the quest again tomorrow. After mess yarned with Kennedy who today returned and then went back to my billet meeting Madame's son in law who is a mine manager at Charleroi and speaks fairly good English. The brasserie in which they are interested here is famous for an extremely light beer and seems to return them a good profit. Last night some vengeful civilian put a firestick into one of the hayricks belonging to the old Burgomaster who appears out of favour with a section here. Extremely cold evening.


[Page 88]
22/12/18 Gourdinne
Sent a good batch of men on leave into Charleroi. Put in a good deal of the morning in the Regtl. Office and, while there, the first orders came for the despatching home of our 1915 men. Thirteen in all we contribute. The padre has an idea for voluntary church parades in lieu of the formal compulsory ones. Matthews unwell today. I took a good walk after lunch. The day was piercingly cold and the sky overcast. All the woods black and bare of leaf. Unlike the parts of Belgium we have previously been in the ground hereabouts is by no means flat. A view from any little hill reveals a surprising number of villages – quite in keeping with the most densely populated country in the world. Every little valley seems to have a compact little village tucked


[Page 89]
22/12/18 Gourdinne
away in it. Returned to my billet and had a long talk with the people there about things in general and find myself making quite good progress in the art of French conversation. I figure these people are not unlike the Germans – square headed blonde and with short cropped bristling hair. However they are violently anti Hun in sentiment and tell great tales of the decay of discipline in the German Army towards the end. A very cold black night.

[Transcribed by Debby Cramer and Judy Macfarlan for the State Library of New South Wales]
