Mitchell Library, State Library of New South Wales

James McKenzie diary, 5 July 1915-21 January 1916
MLMSS 1985/Item 2

[Page 1] 
[Not transcribed]


[Page 2] 
[Not transcribed]


[Page 3]
July 5th 1915 to January 21st 1916


[Page 4]
July 6th
As we were on our way to Church we witnessed a very funny incident. We heard the strains of bagpipes and walking slowly we expected to see some highland regiment come marching along. We were very much surprised to find instead of Highlanders, marching gaily along, we saw a mixed band of pipes and brass instruments walking in front of a closed in motor car and two old fashioned horse driven cabs. The motor car was all decked off with greenery, especially the wheels of the car.
We understood it to be the driving home of a newly married couple going to their new home. The whole procession was followed by a crowd of youngsters cheering and shouting at the pitch of their voices. There were a great many soldiers and nurses passing at the time and a look of amusement crossed their faces as the humour of the scene dawned upon them.
While this scene was being enacted a contrast to the happy picture was also witnessed in the passing of a native funeral with its accompanying groaning and chanting as they followed the corpse to the cemetery.
Going home from the church in the gloaming we were rather tickled by seeing a drove of ducks being driven along one of the main streets, by some natives.

July 6th Mon.
The view looking from the balcony of number 6 ward strikes one very


[Page 5]
much.

The Bulac Bridge, a peculiar kind of drawbridge, crosses the River Nile at this part. There is a very great deal of traffic over the bridge, tram cars which go backwards and forwards from Cairo to the Great Pyramids, Motor Cars, cyclists, natives riding their camels & donkeys, and driving their carts, continually crossing all day long. 
The banks of the Nile are lined with trees and the white glare of the hot sun gives the River a blue, calm refreshing appearance. The gaily coloured steamboats, houseboats, etc give the place a holiday appearance. 
The continual coming and going of the large feluccas carrying merchandise, fruit, stone, etc give a strange mysteriousness to the scene.
On the other side of the bridge the city of Cairo begins, its flat roofed houses some gaily coloured, others the colour of clay, the numerous domes and minarets of the mosques rising above the houses continue until they gradually reach the Citadel and Mohammed Ali mosque which are built high up on the hill, while behind this mosque rise the Mokattam Hills which have a white lime appearance.

More wounded arrive from the Dards, late to-night.

Tues July 7th
Went down the Mousky along with O’ N. In the evening went for a stroll along an unknown road. It was in the gloaming and a nice cool


[Page 6]
breeze was blowing which was very refreshing after the extreme heat of the day.
I was surprised to find this road all lined with trees and it was just like the terraces and avenues at home.

July 9th
More wounded from the "Dards".

July 12th
Intended to have a sail up the River Nile with M. but much to our disappointment we could not get a boat to hire so we decided to go out to Heliopolis.
We had a walk round this beautiful place which is built out in the desert.
Returning to the city we had tea in Groppi’s and then drove home in a "gharry".


[Page 7]
July 16th
D and myself were picked to go on a Hospital Ship. There were twenty men picked and the remaining twenty five were asked to volunteer. The result was a great deal more volunteered than were required. We were put through a medical test and told to keep ourselves in readiness.
We thought our "luck was in" this time.

July 19th
More patients from the Dards.

Went to the Aquarium which is only a short walk from here. The grounds are very nicely laid out. In the centre is a large Ghrotto. It is nice and cool inside and in niches


[Page 7]
swimming about in water, the various kinds of fish which are to be found in the River Nile.

July 22nd
O’N and myself went into town on an A.S.C. Waggon and got off at the Cairo Station.
Making our way down a narrow street in order as O’N said to ‘lose ourselves’ for the afternoon we wandered on "all dressed up and nowhere to go".
We walked slowly along accosting as we went, native sellers, speaking to them in broken Arabic and by this means added more to our few Arabic words.
As we wandered about we got an insight into the work-a-day life of the natives. 
We saw them making the cage-like beds made from the branches of the Palm Tree, the same as the ones which we at present sleep on.
We saw an old man turning wood by a very clever device in the form of a hand lathe. It was turned by means of a bow, the string of the bow being put round the article to be turned. The rapidity by which this old man turned these articles with this ancient device was marvellous.
As we passed a large window we saw a large number of natives with watches in front of them. Thinking this place to be a watchmakers shop we went in to see the time. We were greeted with a roar of laughter by about thirty men and boys seated at tables like the desks in a school.

Much to our surprise and amusement


[Page 8]
we found that this was not a watchmakers shop but a place where they were making hand-made cigarettes.
Each person there had a watch in front of him and the tick, tick, tick, of these thirty watches seemed to act like music to the nimble fingers of the cigarette-makers as they pushed the cut-tobacco through the already prepared cigarette paper.
We saw two native girls grinding corn by hand, turning the old fashioned grind stones.
Other industrious natives we saw at work were men sewing decorations on tents, making toffee, bookbinding, making the cart wheels for the native carts.

We ultimately landed into well known territory "the Mousky" and got back home in time for tea.

23rd July, Fri. 24th July Sat.
Had a stroll round some more of the native streets in Cairo with the same interesting experiences which I had in my previous meanderings.

25th July, Sun.
The season of "Ramadan" is at present being held. Hearing that the interior of the Mohammed Ali Mosque would be lighted up this evening, when we knocked off duty we took tram to the Citadel, to see what it would be like. Unfortunately we had struck the wrong evening and apart from the electric lights which outlined the tall minarets of the mosque nothing exceptional was


[Page 9]
to be seen.

Going round to the lookout behind the mosque we had a good view of the numerous minarets of the mosques of the city of Cairo, outlined by the Electric lights, like the minarets of the Mohammed Ali Mosque.

July 26th Mon.
Went out for a drive in an Arabiah along with M to visit Old Cairo and the Tombs of the Mamalukes. On our way we lighted at the most Ancient Mosque in Egypt. The mosque covered a wide area and had 365 pillars of marbles, nearly all different styles. They had been taken from various places all over Egypt. We were told by the guide that at present only one service is held each year in this mosque. We mounted the narrow, short, but steep staircase up to the pulpit. It was rather shaky and thick with dust as if it had never been used for ages.
One part of the mosque was covered in and had a much better appearance than the other part which was left uncovered.
We were told that the covered in part of the mosque was for the rich people and the other part, not covered in was for the poorer classes. We were next taken to an old church and underneath the church was a cave which was said to have association with the Holy Family in their flight to Egypt.
Driving further on we passed a place where excavations were being made and where there were


[Page 11]
difficulty in finding the place due to the fact that the natives, of whom we enquired, not knowing the language. They were of the poorer type who had not come in contact with the troops very much. We ultimately got on the right track by the help of a native policeman who got the hold of a little native boy. The boy guided us through a labyrinth of a way which at one time appeared to have been a splendid garden. He interested us very much by pointing out various trees, calling them by their English names and also their Arabic names.
After a good long walk through these gardens we came to the Nilometer. This place was like a huge well with a pillar in the centre. The pillar was marked with Arabic measurements. This well was connected in some way with the river and by this means the rise and fall of the river was gauged.
It is said that Moses was found amongst the bulrushes at this part. We were then taken to the Mundura Tree. It was situated in another part of the garden.
This tree is said to have curative powers.
It was all tied up with pieces of rag. These rags are supposed to have been taken from the clothes of people who have been suffering from some disease.

The people are said to take pieces of clothing from of the affected part. These are hung on the tree and leaves from off the tree are


[Page 12]
taken and put on the part were the clothing has been taken off and also a new piece of cloth above the leaves. This tree grew in a peculiar manner. The trunk had grown parallel with the ground, then took its natural form and grew upwards. Hanging from the tree were numerous small flags which were a great deal the worse of the wear. There were also three lamps presumably for night time. On our way to this tree we were followed by a merry group of youngsters. They played round about us and when we reached the tree a piece of straw matting was produced and we were requested to sit on it much to the amusement of the little native children.

July 31st Sat
Went into Cairo this evening. As we entered the Square, the City Fire Engine with the Fire Brigade came dashing along the street.
We turned in the direction the Fire Brigade had taken. It was only a short walk to the scene of the conflagration. When we reached the scene there was a large crowd of people mostly soldiers standing and the Fire Brigade seemed unable to do anything. They apparently were held back by the troops.
The flames were blazing away on the lower flat of one building only, when we reached the scene. As we looked on wondering when any movement was going to be made to put out the conflagration we were amazed to see about half a dozen Australian troops


[Page 13]
come out on to the balcony of the next building hawling wardrobes, bedding and other household things suitable for burning and threw them over the balcony on to the street below, where another fire had been begun. They seemed to be as calm and collected as if they were doing an ordinary days work under ordinary conditions.
In fact after they had thrown a large number of things over in this way one of the soldiers had the audacity, in spite of the fact that the flames were beginning to mount higher and higher and volumes of smoke were pouring forth from the windows, to give a speech to the huge crowd which had gathered.
The smoke and the flames became too much for them and they left the balcony but still no effort seemed be being made by the fire brigade, who, with their fire engine stood in amongst the crowd unable to move. I saw one woman being carried out from amongst the crowd bleeding from head to foot. She was put into an ambulance.
Before the fire brigade got set to work five three to five story houses were well on their way to being burned out.
In one sense it would not have mattered much if the whole street of houses had be burned out. It was a street of houses of ill-fame, a street, the occupants of which have been the ruin of thousands of our soldiers lives.


[Page 14]
Even in the open street one could see things which unless they had seen them with their own eyes, they would not have believed that white people could have sunk so low and become so degraded.

Aug 1st Sun.
Went and had a look at the work of the previous night. Nothing but the bare wall of five houses were left to mark the spot where the previous morning people had lived. A guard was put over the street and no one was allowed to pass through.

Aug 2nd Mon.
More patients from the Dards. Mostly medical cases. No leave for the troops to go to Cairo owing to Saturday night’s escapade.

Aug 3rd Tues.
After visiting the Aquarium O’N and I took a walk round the Ghezireh Island. One part of the island is laid out for building purposes. Fine avenues have been made with trees on either side which pointed to this place being a very fashionable place some time. Getting off the well laid out part on to a footpath we came to the banks of the River Nile. We came across what we thought were heaps of mud. On closer examination we found they were the dwellings of natives. The inhabitants being workers on the land. Cattle, donkeys poultry and people lived in much the same places. The native poultry like their eggs are very small and the native cattle are very ugly looking beasts. Feluccas were sailing


[Page 15]
up this branch of the river which went to form the island. Three natives who had practically no covering over their bodies were walking along the bank pulling a large felucca down the river.
In their work the natives seem to be very sparingly dress, but I have often been walking on the roads leading to the city and have been hailed by them and had to look twice before recognizing them. Having donned their flowing robes and with walking stick in hand walking jauntily along the road they looked different individuals altogether.

Aug 7th Sat.
Wounded arrived this morning from Gallipoli.

Aug 8th 
Having spent the greater part of our time since we came to Egypt in studying the habits and customs of the people, we decided to go to the Cairo Museum and their saw something of what the people of the ancients were like, and what their ideas of life were.
I had visited the Museum one time before but had felt a bit bored with what I had seen there.
This time I had a guide book with me and with the information contained in it and seeing the actual things I spent an exceedingly pleasant afternoon.

It was very cool inside the Museum. The place is massively built. The more I looked at the Statues, Tombs Sarcophagus, etc the more I


[Page 16]
was impressed with the wonderful life-like expression of the features, in spite of the fact that they were badly mutilated and had suffered from the ravages of time, some of them were thousands of years old and had lain for centuries covered by the sand. The hieroglyphics on some of the tombs are so neatly carved that one cannot praise them enough. There were mummies, thousands of years old, the ancient jewellery they wore, etc. and many other things used in the lives of these ancient Egyptians which could only draw from us the conclusion that they must have been a wonderful race of people at that time.
It was a most profitable afternoon that we spent here to-day.
To learn all that was to be seen in this place would take up a life time of study.
On leaving the Museum and making our way towards the Hospital, three natives apparently took us for simpletons. As we approached them they began to play with three cards. One of them put the three cards down on the ground whilst the other two backed for the highest card. In spite of the fact that I knew that they were trying to influence us to play, we were almost on the point of putting money on the cards so simple did it seem. The old man of the tricksters did things so sheepishly and yet won nearly every time, that, hadn’t we known anything of the game we would have fallen into the trap and proved what they thought us to be, namely


[Page 17]
simpletons. As we walked away we burst out laughing and likewise the natives did also when they saw that we knew their game.
Saw the natives laying the foundation stone of a minaret at the re-building of an old mosque. These natives seem to still do their work without the aid of mechanical impliments.
This old mosque which was badly out of repair was said to be five hundred years old.

Aug 9th Mon
Went down the "Mousky". Had a cup of Egyptian Coffee which proved to be the most refreshing drink I have found yet. Before partaking of the coffee I had a severe headache but I found after taking the small cup of coffee with the glass of cold water, the customary way of taking this stimulant in this country, I found that my headache had vanished. Determined, before leaving Egypt, to buy an Egyptian Brass Coffee set, as a suitable curio of the country. More wounded arrived.

Aug 10th Tue

Mena House re-opened as a hospital in order to take an over-flow of patients expected. (Lone Pine Attack Suvla Bay.)

Aug 11th
The month of Ramadan, commenced about the middle of last month, on the appearance of the new moon.
During this time the natives fast from 1 a.m. till the sun has set about 7.30 p.m. every day.
A Gun is fired from the Citadel at sun set.
The month of Ramadan is followed


[Page 18]
by the month of Shawal. The first three days of which is celebrated by a minor festival. The object of the Festival is to give expression to feelings of rejoicing at the termination of the fast and as at our own Xmas Celebrations the parents give presents to their children and masters also to their servants. A few days afterwards (Baram) the "Kerweh" or covering, manufactured at Constantinople at the expense of the Sultan for the "Kaabel" (the most sacred sanctuary in the interior of the Temple of Mecca, where it is annually carried in procession by the pilgrims, is conveyed to the Citadel at Cairo. There it is sewn to-gether. The ceremonies which take place on this occasion are repeated, but on a much grander scale at the end of the month of Shawal, generally about the 23rd of the month.
A gay procession escorts the pilgrimage Caravan to Mecca, and also takes charge of Mahmal. On this occasion all true believers endeavour to remain on the streets during the whole day.

Aug 13th, 14th, 15th 
There is no leave for the troops these last few days. The reason being, the native festivities being on, there might be trouble between them and troops.
Very large numbers of patients have been admitted to the hospital mostly stretcher cases.
Beds were prepared in all sorts


[Page 19]
of corners, recesses and passages in case they should be required.
Carrying patients in at 1 o’clock this morning.
A new landing (Suvla Bay) has been made on Gallipoli and this has accounted for the overflow of wounded.

Aug 17th Tues
Took a circular run in the tram car. Passed the Sultan of Egypt’s Palace and also the Barracks of the Egyptian troops.
All the Imperial Patients in the Hospital have been transferred to the Citadel Hospital.
Received P. Instructor and R.C.Book No 2.

Aug 20th Fri.
Intended to go up and see the famous Barrage, but when I reached Cairo Station I found that there was no train suitable running that day.
Being disappointed in this respect I spent the remainder of the afternoon travelling here and there in the tram cars.
Saw the, what to my mind at least was, early stages of weaving a very simple hand loom worked by a native in his little shop.

Aug 22nd Sun.

Went out to Gaza R.C. Hospital to do stretcher-bearing. A number of gentlemen were also lending a hand. Mostly Scottish wounded in this lot. They were unanimous in the opinion that the ‘D’ is a good place to be out of.

Aug 23rd Mon


[Page 20]
A general clearance of patients to Mena. Another rush of wounded expected.

Aug 25th Wed.
More wounded arrived from the Dards.

Aug 30th Mon.
Cairo has been out of bounds this past week.
Visited [indecipherable] Homes along with Dave and had tea. Five other chaps who had been wounded at the ‘Dards’ were present and we had a jolly good time.
[indecipherable] Homes had visited our hospital to see a patient there. He spoke to myself in one of his visits and noting my accent he asked me where I came from. In my reply it turned out he belonged at one time to the same town in which I was born and brought up. This was the means of introducing one to him.
He had a beautiful house and was a gentleman of great literary and artistic tastes. I have never entered a house in which I found more pleasure than in the house of [indecipherable] H. There were many kinds of antique furniture, pictures, and nick-nacks and they were so tastefully laid out that it was a very real pleasure indeed to see such rooms.

More patients admitted to Hospital.

Sept 1st Wed.
Strolled down the ‘mousky’. Very amused at a couple of natives with a donkey. They were driving a loaded cart drawn by a donkey. The road on which they were driving was slightly elevated and applying the whip to the donkey’s back they


[Page 21]
endeavoured to get over the elevations. The sudden jerk of the cart as they endeavoured to get over the obstacle upset the contents and sent the driver on to the donkeys back.
D. sick in hospital.

Sept 3rd Fri.
Walked round by a native cemetery along with O’N. It was in a disreputable condition. Wandered into a flour mill which was a more modern type than one expected to see in this part of the world. We were shown round it by one of the workers. The native workers were very much interested in us. They tried to get some information out of us regarding how these places are worked in Aus - . the fellow, whom I took to be the foreman, could not speak English but he took us to his office in which there was a telephone. He spoke a few words to someone who was at the other end of the ‘phone and then handed the ‘phone to O’N. O’N listened and as far as he could understand the chap who could speak English fairly well asked the above information. When O’N knew what they were after and as we did not know anything about flour mills we thought it was time to retreat and so putting the receiver down he told the foreman that he did not understand and we laughingly made ourselves scarce. Wending our way about looking in out of the way places ... we


[Page 22]
came across a Rope spinner, spinning rope by a very simple contrivance. We then landed into Mohammed Ali Street and taking our bearings from here we made our way to Groppi’s for tea, passing on our way a number of Letter Writer’s and men of Affairs seated at their little desks under a canopy, where they transacted their business.

Sept 4th.
I do not wake so early in the mornings. The air is much cooler now, just like autumn weather in Scotland. The air being cooler, the flies do not get up so early either, they do not torment us, the consequence is, reveille sounds and yet I sleep on, usually having to double to get on parade ground in time to fall in for duty.

Sept 5th Sun.
Went to church with M. and had a nice stroll home in the gloaming! M. leaves for Alexandria for a months stay at the seaside.

Sept 7th Tues.
Ten men of our unit leaving for duty Overseas. I expect to be amongst ten who are going away shortly. Thirty A.M.C. details arrived here. M.B.D. camp. 
Whilst seated in Groppi’s having tea and studying the people who continually passed too and fro, it struck me very forceably that the people of better off classes were soft and flabby in appearance, and the people of the lower class had the look of being down trodden.

Sept 8th Wed.


[Page 23]
Sept 8th Wed.
Two new natives acting in the wards.

Sept 9th Thur.
Went down the "Mousky" again. We took a walk along a side street in which we had not walked previously in our meandering down here. The street, which we would term an alley was about 8 ft wide. We seemed to have landed into the weaving part of the district. Here we saw weaving in its primitive form. In little recesses of the alley, men were seated weaving by hand. The cloth they were weaving was only from one inch to three inches broad and was of a brightly coloured nature. This cloth is used for tying up the native dress. In one recess there were ten weavers working away at their primitive looms whilst a little native boy apparently overcome with the closeness of the place was lying sound asleep below one of the looms. In another place we saw the finishing touches being put to the cloth which gave it a glossy appearance. In another recess we watched the Red and Yellow Egyptian slippers being made. The grinding of Pepper and Cinnamon was also being done here.
The grinding process was being done in a big stone block which had a hole in it which tapered gradually to almost a point. In this the pepper and cinnamon nuts were put and a huge iron bar was lifted and dropped in amongst them. This was


[Page 24]
no light job. We tried our hand at it and after we had laboured away until the sweat fell from our brows, one of the little native youngsters, who were standing around laughing at our exertion asked for "backshish" much to our chagrin. 
As we walked along this narrow street, in one recess seeing articles made and in another seeing the same kind of articles for sale, this proved an exceedingly enjoyable afternoon. In the shops, with very few exceptions groups of natives were gathered. They looked very picturesque in their native dress of many colours. They seem to be of a very dreamy disposition and I take it they are of a religious nature, many times I have seen them in the attitude of prayer, regardless of the many passers-by. The narrowness of the streets make the place look very busy even although there may only be a few people passing too and fro.

Sept 14th Tues.
Looking out of the hospital window I saw a few large Feluccas came sailing up. As they sailed into the banks of the Nile, native sailors climbed the tremendously slim, tall masts to bind up the sails. They looked like monkeys on a wire and were very pretty to see.

Sept 15th Wed
Had repetition of my experiences down the "Mousky".

Sept 17th Fri
Paid another visit to see the Nilometer.


[Page 25]
Sailed down the River Nile in a small Felucca. At first we went so slowly that I thought we would never reach our destination. An old native was in charge of the boat and we tried to make him understand that we wanted to go faster but all to no avail he still continued zig-zagging on the river. As we got to a wider part of the river we went more quickly. A sudden gust of wind caught our sail and I thought we would have been capsized as we turned a complete circle in the boats length. The old native apparently new his craft and we landed near the hospital with feelings of relief.

Sept 19th.
My name amongst the 20 to leave for duty overseas. Names up on Orders.

Sept 21st Tues.
Paraded at 8.30 this morning before Col. Martin. Complimented by him on the work we had done whilst members of the unit and after a great deal of hand-shaking and good wishes, the twenty of us left for, where we do not no. all that we knew was that we were for duty overseas. We were driven in Ambulance Cars to Cairo Railway Station. Leaving Cairo Station at 9.30 we arrived at a station called Sidi Gaber, near Alexandria, and marched from there to Mustaffa Camp. The breeze blowing from the sea was exceedingly refreshing after the heat of Cairo. The camp was


[Page 26]
situated on the side of the sea and it was very sandy. 
Being free for the day, a party of us went to Alex—in the tram car and spent some time wandering about the streets. Having learned that M. was staying at the Carlton Hotel near Bulkeley I took tram car there. I was fortunate in meeting, as this place was out of bounds to troops. I did not see the notice to this effect so went in at the gate without knowing. After a good deal of trouble I met M. and was invited in to supper. I was taken up to the top of the hotel which seemed to be a new building, and on to a nice large verandah. The verandah, which was large, was laid out like a sitting room, with sofas, chairs, nicely upholstered and a beautiful soft carpet on the floor. It was a beautiful moonlight evening, and the nice warm breeze blowing in from the sea made one feel quite romantic. I was treated to a splendid supper which made me feel as if I was a wealthy individual having a holiday in the Orient instead of a soldier on his way to goodness knows where.

Sept 22nd Wed.
Warned to be in readyness to go with the next draft Overseas. Took the car out to a suburb called Victoria and back into the city again. Had a swim in the sea in the afternoon. In driving back to Camp, one of our


[Page 27]
men was spoken to by a foreigner, presumably a Frenchman, in a peremtory fashion. When the conductor came round for our fares, he did not ask this Frenchman and four other companions for their fares. Our man saw his chance of getting "one" in on him. When the conductor asked for his fare he said "Mafish Falouse" meaning that he had no money "Bohkara", To-morrow. The conductor looked at him anything but pleased and used threat and persuasion alternately but all to no avail, and he ultimately gave up asking for it. All the men in Khaki refused to pay up and we thought it a huge joke. We had not gone very far, however, when a tram inspector came aboard and asked us to produce our ticket. "Ask for these mens fares first" replied the man who had first refused to pay his fare. The foreigners looked at the inspector then at one another in surprise. They had apparently been permanent ticket holders and when they produced their passports every one was satisfied and laughingly paid up.

Sept 23rd Thurs.
Visited the Casino which is situated on the promenade by the side of the sea. 
This is really a Kinema and Concert Hall laid out with little tables and chairs like a Restaurant. You pay for drinks which includes the price of the concert or Kinema. 
The show was not very much worth.


[Page 28]
Sept 24th Fri.
Had good Surfing to-day. Went into the city and took Circular run in the car round by Ras-el-tin Palace. Air very exhilarating. Went to the Kursaal which adjoins the Casino and is for the same purpose and the same kind of inferior show.

Sept 25th Sat.
Alexandria Races being held to-day.

Sept 26th Sun.
Warned to be ready to leave to-morrow at 7 o’clock. Church Parade at 8.30 in the large Y.M.C.A. Hut in camp. Had a swim then walked along the seashore to Bulkeley and finally went to Alex. to have a final look round. Spent the evening in the Y.M.C.A. which was crowded with troops mostly British, writing and reading. To my mind the Y.M. are doing a great deal of good service to the troops in providing these huts for them. We happened to pass the Army Canteen on our way to our tent and the contrast between the two places struck me very forcibly. In the Y.M.C.A. the hut was crowded. Young chaps were there busily writing letters home; reading good books and talking in a subdued tone while across the road in the Canteen the noise was awful, a perfect rabble, the place seemed to be reeking with smoke and the smell of beer, everyone seemed to be endeavouring to shout the loudest, and a terrific uproar was


[Page 29]
the out come.

Monday Sept 27th
Left Camp 7.45 a.m. Took tram to the harbor at Alex--, and boarded the "S.S. Inkosi" for transport no one knew where. The "Inkosi" has a tonnage of 6000 tons.
The harbour looked well with the large number of ships therein. There were there all kinds of ships, large and small, conspicuous amongst them was the Hospital ships with their green band on a white ground and large red cross in the centre. The "Siang Choon" and the "Shropshire" were lying by our side. The troops on board the "Inkosi" consisted of British and Australians mostly reinforcements, men who had left their units sick or wounded and were now returning back to their battalions recovered in health again. We cast anchor at 6.45 p.m. and as we passed the entrance to the harbour our pilot left us and went out to a boat which was there ready to receive him. We have been all issued with life belts and appointed to the various small boats which we are to use in case of accident or in being torpedoed. A necessary precaution.

Tues 28th Sept.
Sea has been very calm. It was amusing to see us standing in a queue waiting our turn to wash ourselves. A beautiful moonlight night. Said to be in the danger zone. Great precautions are being taken as regards lights out on the ship.

Thurs 30 Sept.


[Page 30]
Said to be in this vicinity that the "Royal Edward" was sunk. Land to be seen on both sides of us. We seem to be taking a peculiar route. The reason is obvious. Had a very restless night. The destroyer "Skirmisher" and also a French destroyer marked "C2" are circling around us. It is pretty to see the graceful movements of the little battleships, it is indeed most wonderful how they do it. 
The land seen from here is of a mountainous nature and wind mills are to be seen on the high hills which proves, though the place looks barren and bare to us there must inevitably be many people inhabiting these parts. A sailing ship is making headway in front of us. It seems to be suspected of something for the French destroyer is making circles round and round it. The sailing ship has stopped, also the destroyer. We anxiously waited and watched to see what was going to happen. Everything seemed all right for the destroyer made off leaving us far behind.

Oct 1st Frid.
We reached Lemnos Island this morning about 9.30. As we entered the harbour there were numerous contrivances put there for guarding the enterance. Only a small entrance was open to allow ships to pass through. A boom of chains and buoys stretched from both sides which made passage almost impossible but by the small


[Page 31]
entrance left open. The harbour is very large and very deep. Large numbers of ships of all description were lying anchored in the harbour. Small sailing boats large hospital ships, destroyers and huge warship were all there. 
As we got further up the bay we became more and more surrounded by land. Here and there we could see the white outline of small villages against the darker background of the bare, barren hills. 
On the top of these rugged hills we could see the outlines of numerous windmills. These windmills were of a different construction from what we had seen and imagined windmills to be. The wings of the mills were the same but the construction of the mill was like a haystack and they were built of stone. Amongst the few villages that one could see, there was one which seemed to be larger and more outstanding from the others. This proved to be the town of Mudros.

Oct 2nd Sat.
Heard one of the warship Bands playing which sounded very well across the waters in the bay.

Oct 3rd Sun.
The scene is very peaceful this morning. Hard to believe that we are only 40 miles away from the scene of fighting. This voyage over in the "Inkosi" has been a sarvation voyage indeed. Even to buy anything out of the canteen an exorbitant price is charged for it. Went aboard the small steamer "Partridge". It is being loaded with ammunition and is also crowded


[Page 32]
with troops. As we were going down the bay we passed a number of "Allied" warships. No cheers are allowed to be given. The sailors stand at attention and flag signals are sent up. An airship is sailing through the air above us. 
The "Partridge" is a very fast boat and cut through the water very rapidly. 
The night has got very misty and very cold and we huddled ourselves to-gether, to save ourselves from the cold, biting wind, as much as possible. 
As we neared Gallipoli we saw a flash light on Cape Hellas. As we neared the shore the sound of incessant rifle fire and the sound of bullets dropping into the water gave one definite notice that we had reached the scene of action. 
As we were leaving the barge to go ashore a few bullets fell on to it, wounding one of our number in the arm.

He had just been returning from hospital having already been wounded. To the right of us lay a battleship, from which a magnificent searchlight was showing on to the shore. The sound of a tremendous report of a large gun firing startled us and one could clearly see by means of the searchlight, the smoke rising at the spot the shell had burst. It seemed as if these shells were travelling along the searchlight. A large number of shells were sent over and looking at it from where we were one wondered how anything or anyone could live there.


[Page 33]
There were a few red lights on the high ridges above, the significance of which I do not at present know. We landed near the C.C.S. and going into their shelter the first thing I saw was a man with part of his head blown off and yet he was still alive. We slept on the beach all night.

Oct 4th Mon.
Made my way to the reinforcement camp in Shrapnel Gully. Just after breakfast when we had fallen in on parade along with other reinforcement the Turks began to shell us and dropped shells fast and furious on the ridge above the gully. What a scatter there was. We all made for places of safety just like rabbits when they have been startled make for their burrows, we made for holes in the earth for the same reason. We were not fortunate in our choice of place. Five of us crowded under a narrow ledge. 
This was our first experience of being under shell fire. They whizzed over our heads, bursting all around us and we spent an anxious hour, trembling at every shell that burst as they threw earth, stones and metal in every direction. However, at the end of an hours bombardment the shelling ceased, none of us having been hit much to our relief. 
After the bombardment a "Taube" made his appearance in the air presumably to see what damage the shelling had done. Not wishing to experience the same again, as we had gone through this


[Page 34]
morning we set to work to make a proper dug-out. At night we got orders that we had to return to Mudros. Our dug-out was too small for four of us and we spent a very uncomfortable night there. There was continuous rifle firing, the whole night long. The familiar Egyptian that we had seen so much of in Egypt was to be seen here also, doing labouring work.

Oct 5th Tues.
Packed up and went aboard the SS El Kahira. Three of our boys refused to return with us. Arrived at Mudros in the afternoon. Had to walk three miles to the A.D. Camp.

Oct 6th Wed.
Had to sleep out in the open. Food is very, very scarce here. We were all put on fatigue duty carrying stones. The ground here is very stony. The hills are of a volcanic nature. Had a walk through one of the Greek villages about here. The houses are very irregularly built. Not much formation about them. 
Women are to be seen spinning wool by hand. Quite a contrast to this, at one house sitting outside an old lady was sitting spinning by hand while inside the doorway a young girl was stitching some garment with an up-to-date "Singer" sewing machine. Inside most of the house they looked very clean and tidy.

Oct 7th Thursday.
Unloading stores in the forenoon. Went into another camp away in another part of the island. Met Rentoul


[Page 35]
Middleton, Adams and Hart. Spent an interesting time relating our experiences since we had parted. Saw the villagers weaving cloth by a hand loom. We also saw them winnowing grain. The grain that they grow here is dark coloured and the bread is likewise of a dark colour, baked in the form of a large scone. This bread is so scarce there being so many troops here, the price of it is exhorbitant, even then, it is so run upon that we can’t get any. This, coupled with the fact that our rations are very, very poor, and short, makes things miserable on this bare, barren island. The water here has to be drawn from the wells and that is very scarce also. The villagers are very much annoyed at us taking their water.

Oct 8th Frid.
There is a camp of Scottish troops here, hence the sound of the bagpipes which we hear. All the time we have been in this detail camp we have had to sleep out in the open. Not having any cover at all, we are very wet from the mist which gathers during the night. We fixed up a bivouac, Davie and I, to try and obviate this. During the night such a terrific storm took place our bivouac was blown away. The rain came down in torrents, the wind blew a hurricane, and the lightning flashed, lighting up the darkness continuously. There were one or two biscuit and other tin dumps near by and in the darkness we could not see what was coming our way. One could hear the noise of tins being blown rapidly forward in


[Page 36]
our direction, by the wind, and I expected every minute to get a knock on the head by one of them, the darkness, between the sudden and short intervals of light caused by the lightning, was so intense.

Oct 10th Sunday.
Church parade early this morning. The ringing of church bells in the little Greek villages was very pleasant. The morning was bright and beautiful and the island semed so very peaceful.

Oct 11th Mon.
Left the camp at 8 o’clock this morning, to embark for Anzac. Embarked on the "Sir Joseph Pearse" on to the El Kahira and ultimately landed at Anzac early on Tuesday morning.

Oct 12th Tue.
Sleeping for a few hours in Shrapnel Gully. We are attached to the 5th Field Amb. who are stationed in Rest Gully. D, B and myself spent our time making a dug-out. A couple of aeroplanes overhead. Met quite a number of chaps in this Amb. whom I had met in Cairo before coming over here.

Oct 13th Wed.
Completed our dug-out to hold three. Very comfortable. Shells are bursting on the top of the hill opposite us, about a hundred yards away. The experienced men seem to pay little heed to these shells bursting near them.

Oct 14th
Rifle firing is kept up continuously during the night time and during the day it is more or less continuous but not so heavy.


[Page 37]
Enjoying this open-air life very much. Food is pretty good and enough of it. We are situated in a deep gully, with almost perpendicular hills partially covered with shrubbery on either side.

Oct 14th Thurs.
Have to cook most of our food ourselves. We have improvized a few useful things such as stoves etc. for this purpose. Machine gun firing very active last night. The opposing trenches are so near that it is hard to tell whether the guns are our own or the enemies.

Oct 15th Fri.
One section of this amb. is stationed on Walkers Ridge. Went up there on a visit. There we saw on the ridge not very far away, the Turks front line of trenches.

It was a very stiff climb up the mule path to Walkers Ridge. Anzac with its dug-outs look like the burrows of rabbits on a large scale. We came down by another path which was exceedingly narrow and it not being a regular path, it was exceedingly steep and one had very great difficulty in keeping their feet. To make a slip would have meant tumbling down into the gully far beneath. On our way we descended into a camp of Indians who were busy there cooking their own particular food. A pretty scene down in this gully was two kids along with their mother. Seeing this transferred one’s minds eye back to scenes of farm life and of home. In the afternoon we were all sent down to the beach to be attached to No 1 A.C.C.S. On reaching the No 1 A.C.C.S. we got


[Page 38]
five bell tents to fix up, well under the ridge. These we were to occupy for the time being. We had just finished fixing up these tents and had gone round to the cookhouse for our tea. On returning with our rations we had just settled down to partake of our tea when a shell burst on the ridge directly above us. This caused a great stir amongst us and we all immediately tumbled out of the tent door and made for shelter behind the cookhouse which was built of sand bags. After a time when we thought that the shelling had ceased we returned to our tents. Apart from the excitement of the moment the thing that troubled me most was the loss of my hot cup of tea. In the hurried exit from the tent my mess tin had been upset and not a drop of tea was left. The evening was chilly and cold and the cup of hot tea was really necessary indeed.

Oct 16th Sat.
Terrific bombardment took place during the night by our own warships from the sea. Being new to this kind of thing it was a source of great alarm amongst us. 
The twenty attached men were put on digging our two huge dug-outs, one for an Operating Theatre and another larger one to be used as a dispensary.
In the evening when it was beginning to get very dark D and myself took a walk along the beach towards Anzac Cove. Lined right along this narrow strip of sand between the hills and the sea were the small Indian transport carts, mules and Indian drivers. There they


[Page 39]
were waiting to be laoded up with stores to be taken up the steep incline to the troops in the trenches during the night time. Along the waters edge were a number of skeletons of boats which had apparently been destroyed at one time or other and then been thrown up on the beach. Lying out from the beach a mile or two away one could see the out line of the hospital ship marked conspicuously by electric lights coloured red to mark the Red Cross and Green Lights to form the bar on the side.

Oct 17th Sun.
Still digging the o.t and dMost of the shelling today was done by our own guns.

Wet weather.

Oct 18th Mon.
An Artillery duel is taking place away on our left.

Oct 19 Tues.
Got a day off to dig a dug-out for ourselves. Beautiful moonlight night. A terrific wind blowing which necessitated the fixing of the tents repeatedly. In some parts here there is only about a thousand yards between our front-line of trenches and the sea. This makes one think that it would not take much of a push to sweep us into the sea. There is not much chance of buying many luxuries here.

Oct 20th Wed
Put the finishing touches to the o.t. and d. They look very well now being lined with linen sheets and the o.t. has got a concrete floor. Learned afterwards that what was


[Page 40]
to be the dispensary is now to be the officers mess. The name dispensary is only a blind. One of the many dodges one finds in the army.

Oct 22nd Fri.
Had to wheel a number of patients along the beach from the old station to the new one. This we found pretty difficult work owing to the congestion of traffic and the broken up way that we had to go along.

Oct 23rd Sat
Evacuated wounded on to the barges which takes them to the hospital ship for transport to the various hospitals at the base, Egypt etc.

Oct 24th Sun.
Twenty eighth birthday to-day. Shrapnel is being sent over our heads on to the beach.

Oct 25, Mon.
Feeling out of condition. In spite of the fact that I had a temperature of 102 º I was not allowed to see an M.O. until I had carried some stretchers to the barges. The pier was five or six hundred yards from the C.C.S. and it was no joke carrying some of the big, heavy men along the broken up path to these barges. Even when one felt in good condition the work was heavy enough. After finishing this work I saw the M.O. and he gave me some aspirin and I was sent to bed.

Oct 26th Tues.
Stretcher bearing to dressing tent.

Oct 27th Wed.
Loaded up the barges with wounded. A terrific storm raging on the sea. The barge took four hours to cover the distance of a mile and a half to the


[Page 41]
hospital ship. When it was fixed up along side of the hospital ship the strain was so much that the cable snapped and they had to bring the loaded barge back to the pier again over the stormy waters. They were eight hours in covering the short distance and it was indeed a terrible experience for those men on board. Added to their wounds or sickness they had the awful condition of sea sickness to put up with. The chaps who came over here reckon that they are being unfairly dealt with by the N.C.O.s of this unit. In this I agree with them. The sunsets here are most beautiful.

Oct 28th Thurs.
Shrapnel is coming over pretty heavy and falling uncomfortably near. Owing to water being very scarce we had to draw salt water from the sea for washing purposes. Dismantling the old C.C.S. "Beachy Bill" is shelling the mine sweepers which are plying near the beach. He is dropping the shells perilously near them. Had a pretty heavy days stretcher bearing to-day. One of the patients that I carried, died before we reached the barge. When one sees a few of the sights which are to be seen out here one queries the old saying the "glories of war". To me this game is full of pathos.

Oct 29th Fri.
Evacuated our patients very early this morning. Got permission to finish our dug-out. This we made as comfortable as possible, making beds out of old stretchers and raising them by means of


[Page 42]
boxes. Our dug-out was placed well up on the hill and one found themselves put to a great deal of exertion to get there. Cudgelling our brains for a name for our dug-out we at length decided to call it "Excelsior" remembering Longfellows poem of that name and taking into consideration where it was made and under what circumstances we had made it this name was very appropriate. Not feeling too well these last few days.

Oct 31st Sunday.
Found a bullet at the entrance to our dug-out. Egyptian Labour Corps out on strike. The shelling apparently is too much for them. A party of them had found a bomb. Thinking that this bomb would make a good light in the darkness of their home they had endeavoured to light it with disastrous results. Two of them were killed and a few others were wounded. Moral:- "Don’t tamper with things you know nothing about".

Nov 1st
Sea has been very rough. The waves are dashing over the piers. These two piers are our most important points. If we lose them or they are damaged in any way, things will be very crook for all on Anzac. On to them all our ammunition stores etc are loaded and should these piers be washed away our difficulties are going to be greatly increased. Looking at the position here one feels that we are only hanging on by a thread. The little tug the "Gabe" which has given me many pleasant moments watching as she sailed about like a


[Page 43]
duck in a pond is no more. During the recent storm she got stranded. One felt that they had lost a friend in losing little "Gabe".

Nov 2nd Tues.
Sea very calm. Evacuated early this morning. Mellow autumn is at hand. Even a wintry touch is in the air, enhanced by the appearance and chirping of little robin red breast. I took some interest in this little bird as it flitted about the scrub on the hillside. There were so few birds to be seen here. Pointing the little bird out to another chap I had no sooner done so than he made a dive for a stone and threw it at the bird. Here was I mentally picturing a little pleasure in seeing little robin red breast, and the other, he seemed to see nothing else but to throw a stone at it. A contrast in the point of view of looking at one and the same thing, by different individuals.

Nov 3rd Wed.
Sea calm. Sun hot during the day.

No 1 Stationary Hospital arrived during the night time. One of the members got knocked by a bullet in the eye as he was coming ashore. No 1 Stationary are putting up a hospital just below us. Owing to the sun being so hot and the enticing appearance of the calm blue sea a number of men took it into their heads to have a dip in the briny. They had not long entered when Johnny Turk must have seen them, for he dropped a few shrapnel perilously near. Luckily none of the men were injured


[Page 44]
and discretion being the better part of valour they took warning and got out of it in double quick time. Carried Capt Carlisle down to the barge on a stretcher. He has appendicitis and is being hurried across to the hospital ship to be operated upon. Looking away in the Suvla Bay direction one saw what appeared to be a terrific explosion as if a mine had been blown up. Smoke and earth rose to a tremendous height. As the stationary hospital came over from Aust-- on the "(K)Yarra" their were amongst them quite a number of chaps that I had met before. Some heavy stuff is being sent over to Walker Ridge and the Cathedral. The nose caps are coming in our direction. One dropped between two of our chaps. They were standing speaking to one another at the time.

Nov 6th Sat.
Saw a rather painful incident. An R.G.A. officer who had been wounded by a bomb which had dropped into their officers mess was put in one of our tents to die. His case was hopeless.

Nov 7th Sun.
A meeting of medical officers held in our tent. They have meetings usually here in order to discuss their work. Shelling continued at intervals to-day.

Nov 9th Tuesday
As I write this note high explosives are being dropped around. They are making a hole in the ground of only a few feet.

Nov 10th Wed.
About a mile or so, away to the right of us is No 16 C.C.S. British, Shells


[Page 45]
a being dropped about them five at a time. I reckon that hundreds must have dropped in and around them during this afternoon. It was a magnificent spectacle. The report of the guns as they fired, the louder report as they exploded and the thirty or forty feet of earth as they burst made a magnificent spectacle looking from the point where I was standing. 
But what of the men who were in amongst it all? There feelings can be much better imagined than described. The head quarters at this part were also destroyed. The patients in No 16 C.C.S. were transferred to us as their station was destroyed by this afternoon’s sport. A number were killed and many wounded.

Nov 12th Fri.
Received a few luxuries from the Aust- War Comforts Fund. Amongst these luxuries was a tin of insect powder. What wouldn’t we do to get rid of "Chats"?
Inoculated against cholera.
Nov 13th Sat
Away out on the sea we saw a "destroyer" and about two o’clock a launch left its side and made for the pier on North Beach. A number of officers disembarked from the launch and climbed up the steep incline towards Walkers Ridge. 
About three o’clock we heard the sound of lusty cheers and then we learned that Lord Kitchener was paying us a visit. He walked with quick sprightly step. I was working away and only saw him from a distance. He spoke a few words to the group of men who were gathered round him and then amidst lusty cheers he made his


[Page 46]
departure again in the launch. The red capped, rainbow breasted officers saluted him as he left the pier. From where I was these officers looked like wax figures or dolls, pull the string and the figure moves sort of business. The above accounts for the activity of the "big heads" earlier in the morning when we were evacuating our patients. Instead of things working smoothly as they usually did everything went wrong owing to the interference of these so-called "brains" of the army.

Nov 14th Sun.
Received my mail which had collected at Ghesireh Palace since I left Egypt. This was a great pleasure indeed as I had not had any letters for four months.
I was sorry to learn from one of the letters of the death of my grandmother. 
This afternoon we were allowed off duty. We could not have been more surprised to hear this than if a bomb had dropped in amongst us. We never thought our officers could be so considerate. Spent the afternoon washing our underclothing. We have been issued with some heavy underwear. Finished reading our letters in a trench after having carried a corpse to the cemetery on the beach.

Nov 16th Tues.
There has been a pretty strong wind blowing in from the sea. We thought our hospital tents were all going to be blown down, so strong was the wind. Numerous evacuations to-day. The wind has fallen a bit. We had to evacuate in the middle of the night. It is no joke carrying


[Page 47]
wounded men down these rough hill sides in the middle of the night. Luckily we have carried stretchers down so often during the daytime that it is becoming second nature to us now and one seems to know every step of the way even ropes which are stretched across our path are mechanically avoided in the blackness of the night. Only the faint glimmer of a light at the end of the pier guides us were to go.

Nov 17th Wed.
The S.S. "Milo" has been sunk well in on the beach and is for a kind of backwater for the pier. I am told that it has been filled with cement in order to keep it there.

Nov 19th Fri.
Admitted to Hospital having a slight touch of dysentery.

Nov 20th Sat.
Two warships are about three miles out to sea. They are putting up a terrific bombardment. The sound of guns seems to make the very earth shake and one wonders it is possible that people can live under it. This, up to the present, is the worst pounding that I have ever witnessed. Looking at the ship they seem to be veritably spitting fire and the sound of the explosions is indescribable.

Nov 24th Wed.
To while the time away one found pleasure in memorizing matter which one happened to read, poems etc.

Nov 25th Thurs.
This is my first anniversary of Active Service. Shells are dropping too near my


[Page 48]
my dugout for my liking. One dropped almost on to it this evening. B and I were sitting writing letters when suddenly, there was a heavy thud, the earth shook and something heavy fell on our roof and the light almost blew out. It gave us a start, and expecting that another would come shortly, which it did we made down the hill to the cookhouse where there was a light and where there was a fair amount of safety. A few more shells were sent over and then we made our way back to our dugout again there to sleep over our previous night’s experience. The shells which are being sent over in our direction now must be from Howitzers as they seem to get right into the gullies.

Nov 26th Fri.
We had a heavy shower of rain this afternoon. At night time the rain came down in torrents. The lightening flashed and lighted up the whole place. The thunder rolled as I had never heard it roll before. This was such a night as I never can forget. The storm lasted the whole night long.

Nov 27th Sat.
By morning, the storm abated but it is exceedingly cold. Away over on the right the Turk is pouring shrapnel over. The air is covered with puffs of smoke and tongues of flame. By some means or other B. my dug-out mate has got into his possession a number of paper cover novels, and our evenings are being


[Page 49]
pleasantly spent reading them. "The Cage" by Harold Begbie, "Kate Carnegie" by Ian Maclaren, "Scottish Life and Character" by Dean Ramsey, are some of the titles of these books.

Nov 28th Sun.
On putting our heads out of the dug-out this morning we learned why, that it had been so cold all night. Snow had fallen during the night and the ground all around was covered with a white coat. The snow continued to fall all day. It was very nice to see but one felt bitterly cold with it all. Our duty to-day consisted of clearing the snow of the roofs of the tents by means of long poles and brushes. The snow had settled on the roofs so thickly, that it was weighing the roofs down considerably. This was rather a cold job but entering into the fun of the thing and seeing the humorous side of these condition we had very good sport with it all. Some of the Aussies who had never seen snow in their lives before were very excited at the experience. The "Beetle" the barge which we used to load up our wounded to be taken over to the hospital ship has got stranded on the rocks of Imbros. Now, we have to load the patients on to small boats and they are being pulled over by a motor launch. This is a very much slower process than loading up a barge. A description of the inside of our dug-out as it is now may be very interesting. There are three of us in this "hole" in the earth. Three of the sides are built


[Page 50]
up with sand bags filled with earth. As we were only allowed twenty five bags to make our dug-out, and to build ours took a few hundred, where we got the additional bags I am not going to say. As possession is nine-tenths of the law, that, in time of war was to us sufficient. We fixed up three stretchers on boxes and made comfortable beds. A box fixed up in the centre acted as a table and another box fixed up at the side took the place in our home of a cupboard. In it we kept a few books and our eating utensils. We cut holes in the walls of our dugout and fitting biscuit tins therein we kept some food safe from the interference of vermin, ants, rats etc. We got some old canvas and lined our walls as best we could to keep back the falling earth. On this canvas we stuck P.P.C. pictures cut from newspapers etc. The three different temperaments of the occupants of this mansion? Were shown in the choice of the wall decorations. B. had his part of the wall covered with photos of famous actors, D had his part covered with humorous drawings from Punch and other comical newspapers which we managed to get the hold of, while M’s particular frame of mind was appealed to by placing cuttings, poetry, etc from newspapers on the wall. From the manner in which our home was decorated we found no end of mental recreation which passed many weary hours away.


[Page 51]
Over the roof of the dug-out were placed two tarpaulins, one which we were allowed and another which we had not been allowed but still we got, it, needless to say how. In order that too many questions should not be asked us regarding where we had got the surplus sandbags we covered the sides of the dug-out with scrub. Of an evening we had quite a number of visits from other chaps who could not rest themselves in their own dug-out. Sitting there, yarning amongst the thick smoke from tobacco, there being no outlet for it, we spent many a pleasant evening in this way. "W" came into our dugout this morning and made the remark that he had never seen snow before and that he was not enamoured of the experience of winter time in this part of the globe. We were put on fatigue duty this forenoon brushing the snow from off the tents. Rather a cold job it was too. 
In the afternoon all work in the station was stopped. B. who had to go round to various Battalion Headquarters with the few effects belonging to men who had died of wounds in the C.C.S. and he asked us to come with him which we did. To get to the H.Q.s we had to climb up high hills and go down into deep gullies. The wet weather made this kind of walking very difficult indeed. At times we were knee deep in mud. We were right in the trenches


[Page 52]
and had also to pass by dangerous open corners. Owing to the dulness of the weather, things, this afternoon were very quiet and we got round and back to the C.C.S. without mishap, feeling tired out but warm with the exertion.

Mon. Nov 29th
Advantage has apprently been taken of the dull weather by the Turks to shift his guns into new positions. This morning we were subject to a very heavy bombardment of high explosives. They landed into places where no shells had dropped before since we came here. We evacuated all the patients from the hospital into the saps and the huge dug-out which had been made for emergency. This gave a little safety. One unfortunate chap had just got into a sap when a shell burst beside him causing an ugly gash in his thigh. He was in hospital suffering from jaundice and I am sure between the two his chances of surviving are very poor. One of the shells went right through the operating tent but fortunately for some, it did not explode. Had it exploded a few of the occupants of the tent would not have lived to tell the tale. Read Ian Maclaren’s "Kate Carnegie" in which I found the proverb which I thought very funny and yet very true:- Scatting and biting Mak’ Scots fouk’s ‘oong

Nov 30th
As I was lying on the stretcher


[Page 53]
in our dug-out a bullet passed through the tarpaulin just above me and struck the tin box near the roof. We received a large number of casualties to-day. As two battalions were changing over the Turks got wind of it and shelled right on to them. Owing to the evacuation of wounded being carried out in small boats, the station is so slowly evacuated that our station has become full up owing to the overflow. The first day that we landed in Shrapnel Gully we saw an Indian who was going about cutting the soldiers hair. To-day we learned that he had been arrested and shot as a spy.

Dec 1st Wed.
To-day Walkers Ridge is having a heavy bombardment. Shrapnel galore is being sent over. The station has been pretty well cleared of patients this evening.

Dec 2nd Thurs.
Droves of birds which look to me like Starlings are flying about here just now. Frost-Bite seems to have got a tremendous number of our troops. Some are coming in on their hands and knees.

Dec 3rd Fri.
The weather is quite warm this morning.

The stationary hospital which is being put up just below us got a shell or two this afternoon. One shell knocked out two


[Page 54]
and wounded four very badly. Saw a very touching parting to-day. A large number of Maltese are doing labouring work here. One of their number was going aboard the barge apparently being evacuated sick. His mates standing around one after the other shook hands, kissed one another on the cheeks, and tears were trickling down their cheeks. These Maltese, although they are only fifty yards from us, they are living in a "possie" which is being shelled regularly.

Dec 5th Sun.
Principally medical cases in the hospital at present. A tremendous bombardment is taking place midway between Suvla Bay and here. Heavy ammunition all simply being poured over on them. This happening only a mile and a half away we witnessed a magnificent spectacle. The shells come over one after another in rapid succession and the clouds of earth raised must be about fifty ft high. Learned afterwards that they had practically destroyed No 16 C.C.S. and some H.Qs. numerous soldiers have been killed and our staion is now full up having had to receive the patients who had managed to escape the bombardment of No 16 C.C.S. and no hospital ship is available to take them away.

Dec 7th Tues.

Still no Hospital Ship available.


[Page 55]
Hospital bombarded again. Got our patients into the saps and dug-outs for safety. Met M. who left us when we were at No 2 A.G.H. and who had gone to England. He stayed with us in our dug-out as No 2 Station of which he is now a member are only getting this Hospital ready. Spent a very pleasant time with him giving our past experiences since we parted in Egypt.

Dec 8th Wed.
We evacuated our patients during the night. This is a pretty difficult job as there is no lights bar one right on the point of the pier. However we have carried stretchers this few hundred yards so often that we seemed to know every step of the way, even in the pitch darkness.

Dec 8th Wed.
Hospital again bombarded with howitzers. One of the shells went right through our operating tent but did not explode. They would not have been left to tell the tale. It is marvellous that only one person has been wounded in these now frequent bombardments of the C.C.S. L.R. and G.P. dug the unexploded shell out of the earth in doing so they had to dig about four feet down for it.

Dec 9th


[Page 56]
Beautiful weather at present. No hospital ship in sight. I wish there were, in order to get these patients out of the way. Shelling of the C.C.S. is becoming too frequent to be pleasant. Just as I write this short note a shell has dropped on the other side of the low ridge from us. This time it happens to be Shrapnel so that our C.C.S. is comparatively safe. It landed so near that we automatically got our of our "hole" to see where it had landed. The pier is being repaired and it is like walking a tight rope to get our stretchers on to the boat. A few of our number are leaving us, being evacuated ill with diptheria. One of the enemy aeroplanes flew very low over us this evening firing a machine gun as he glided over us. A tug anchored near the beach. It had no sooner done so than over poured shell after shell. Time and again we thought she was hit the shells dropping all around. We were interested spectators of this incident and it was like watching an exciting football match. Every minute we expected to see a shell drop right on to it. Although this incident only lasted a few minutes at least fifty shells must have been fired at it. All the time the shelling was


[Page 57]
going on we could see the sailors working for dear life raising the anchor, and we heaved a sigh of relief to see the anchor raised and the tug steaming away into safety.

Dec 10th Frid.
Our C.C.S. is filling up so rapidly with sick now, that we anxiously look for the hospital ships to come in. A shell landed right on to the gun on the ridge above us killing and wounding all the gun crew. Warship bombarded the Turkish positions very heavily this forenoon. Even although these warships were three miles away the situation of the shots being fired seemed to shake the who peninsular. One wonders how anyone or anything could live after such a bombardment as we have witnessed to-day.

Dec 11th Sat.
Stationary hospital got orders to pull down and quit. This seems very strange as they have been six weeks in putting up their hospital and have done no hospital work whatever. Kept busy carting wood from the stores up to the station. There is great stir amongst a number of units. It seems that every night large drafts of men are leaving this position. Some of our men say that we are going to evacuate the Anzac position. Heated


[Page 58]
arguments are going on amongst. For my part I cannot believe that we are going to leave here. If we are going to leave I think that another landing is going to take place at a more advantageous position. Beautiful mellow autumn weather.

Heard this evening that Sgt. Major Knowles who sung so well at the concerts in Ghezerah Palace Hospital, has been killed.

Just finished reading the "Psalms in Human Life". I have lent this volume to a few chaps and they have simply been carried away with it. It is a splendid book.

Dec 12th Sun
As one goes along the beach of an evening the place is practically blocked with troops and artillery. Waiting on barges to take themaway. In spite of the fact that there is such crowds, there is practically no noise. Many rumours are afloat. Some say we are clearing out but "I hae my doots".

What is the meaning of this I cannot tell, but it is a bit upsetting. The prevailing belief is that we are going to evacuate this position, and that our C.C.S. is to be the last Medical Unit to leave. Kept busy building a Shrapnel Shelter in case we got shelled. The staion is now being kept empty of patient, they are


[Page 59]
being evacuated almost as soon as they come in to the C.C.S. Packed my kit bag with only the essential things to take away if rumour should be true.

Dec 13th Mon
Feeling amongst us very uneasy. The beach is very quiet this morning. Reminds me of early on Sunday mornings at home. On orders this morning we all being issued with Brazards [brassards] signed by General House and also new identification disc and each of us has to have his water bottles kept filled. Rather ominous looking. The Army Ordnance Stores were open to all this forenoon and one could help themselves to all kinds of new clothing. What is the use of it all to us. We can only take what we can comfortably carry and that is not much. It looks now as if one will be lucky to get away with a whole skin. There is a mystery about the whole affair that I for one can’t fathom. Addressed by General House, Chief of Medical Staff. He gave us to understand that we are to be the last medical Unit to leave the position. He said that we had been chosen this position of honour. He said that he trusted

[Page 60]
we would all get off the position safely. After we heard what was actually going to happen we were more at ease but candidly speaking I do not expect to get away.

Dec 15th Wed.
Still on the "qui vive" Bringing up large quantities of stores from the A.S. Depot and storing them inside the station grounds. Foodstuff of all descriptions are stored here. Small trestle bridge being built from the beach to the sunken ship "Milo". Issued with forty eight hours iron rations and ordered to keep our water bottles filled. We have also been issued with first field dressings and large quantities are in the tents in case of emergency.

Dec 16th Thurs.
A nose cap from a shell landed in B.R.S dugout. He had a narrow escape from injury. The shells seem to be getting more near every time, to our place of abode. The hits all but getting on to the piers and the barges. As I write this the shells are buzzing over our heads and bursting too near to be comfortable. Two members of our unit woke up this morning and found a shell case lying between them. Apparently the shell after having got rid of its shrapnel had dropped through the roof of their dugout whilst they were asleep


[Page 61]
and it did not disturb there slumbers. Put on guard over the water tanks in Reserve Gully. They have been filled with water and are only to be used by the hospital. D.I. relieves me. At twelve oclock midnight just as I had gone on guard duty a great flare got up just from about the last tent in the C.C.S. Then a short time afterwards the Army Ordnance Stores and the Army Service Stores were set afire. The whole of north beach was lighted up and bellows of smoke mounted high up into the air and became so dense that the full moon and stars were hidden from one’s sight. The Turks throughout the night kept sending shells over at irregular intervals and some of them landed just by the side of the "Milo" and the new trestle bridge which had so lately been put up. I was standing beside the water tanks troops in small bodies of two hundreds or so, came marching quietly down the gully. Their boots were padded with sandbags etc. in order to deaden the noise of marching and so well was this accomplished that they seemed like treading on air and they vanished before I knew. A chap came running down the gully in a great hurry. Soon afterwards he came back carrying


[Page 62]
a stretcher and on making inquiries I learnt that a shell had dropped into an officer’s dug-out and had wounded him. A couple of mules passed by very slowly and they made me start, they, being white gave me the impression of seeing ghosts. Soon afterwards an Aussie thinking that it was better to ride than to walk had mounted this mule and passed by me like an apparition, the other mule walked quietly behind. In the early morning nothing but the sound of a few birds and the crack, crack, crack of machine guns and rifles firing broke the dead silence. It was exceedingly eerie waiting on day breaking. Nearly all the Indians have left here. They did valuable work transporting stores up to the trenches with their mules and carts. This accounts for the few mules that are staying about without anyone in charge. The sun, as it rose this morning took on a peculiar reddish appearance, owing I have no doubt to the dense smoke which is coming from the burning stores. The sea was beautiful and calm all night.

Dec 18th Sat.
A divine service eas held in the shrapnel shelter. The Rev Captain Dexter gave a splendid


[Page 63]
and an appropriate address based on Psalm 46. rather a peculiar incident was, in illustrating his address, he told us three stories which were taken from the book entitled "The Psalms in Human Life" which I had read during my stay on Anzac and a book which I have in my possession at this time. As we came out of the shelter after the service, shrapnel burst over our heads and spread into the sea near the "Milo". Had a parade of all men and received orders how to proceed during the evacuation. The unit has been divided into four parties. No 4 party is to leave the shelter first, No 3 next No 2 to follow and No 1 last. D. and myself are in No 2 party. Bingham who is being evacuated sick is taking a letter which he is going to post to George, so tha if I am missing the people at home will know that I am a prisoner of war in Turkey. We have been addressed by Major Campbell our new O.C. and the tone of his address gave us confidence that we would get off all right.

Dec 19th Sun.
On water tank guard, I saw no troops during the night but I am told that ten thousand had left Anzac Cove pier during the nightime. Shrapnel was sent over during the night-time. The "Stores" fire still burns fiercely.


[Page 64]
In spite of the fact that this fire has been burning two nights and a day, there is a tremendous amount still to be burned up yet. A large number of bottles of beer and champagne etc. were destroyed last night. These belonged to our officers. Such luxuries could never be allowed to common rank and file Oh! No, No. Ordered to take our packs down to the shelter and to parade there at ten thirty to-night. Put up a notice on our dug-out "Apartments to let" Apply. When we come back again. A large number of troops with muffled feet passed on their way to the beach, to embark. A beautiful moonlight night and the sea nice and calm. As we waited quietly on the weary hours passing away we were provided with music from the gramophone which had only been in use in the officers mess previously. The one tune that was the favourite and was played over a few times was "the Rosary". A copper had been placed near the shelter and our cooks made cocoa for us. The floor of the shelter was covered with hospital mattresses and on these we all lay huddled to-gether till the time should come for us to depart. Strange to say not a shell has been sent over to-night. The slightest sound made us prick up our ears expecting every minute to be heavily bombarded.


[Page 65]
I have only a faint recollection of hearing No 4 and 3 depart. About 3.30 in the morning we, who were left, automatically put our packs on our back and left the shelter and made for the beach. On our way we met the machine gunners carrying their machine guns along. They had lived the ridge above us and were our last line of defence. We crossed over the small trestle bridge on to the "Milo" and from the "Milo" we embarked on the barge. We waited on the barge for some time and during the time we were waiting a terrific crack, crack of rifles and the heavy sound of an explosion either of a mine or a big gun being blown up, was heard. At five minutes to four the barge left the "Milo" and we were speeding our way to the Hospital ship "Dongala", not a man from our unit missing. How this evacuation was worked is marvellous, for had the Turks known of our intention there must have been a very different story to tell. It seems strange that not one shell should drop on the beach during the whole of the night we were leaving. There had been a terrific bombardment of Gabe Tepe during yesterday forenoon and rumour had it that Beachy Bill had been silenced,


[Page 66]
be that the reason or not I do not know, but this is certain, no shell dropped on the beach during the final evacuation.

Dec 20th Mon.
Much to the surprise of the staff on board the "Dongola" instead of seeing wounded men pouring on to the ship. A thing they were fully prepared for, they saw healthy but tired men walking up the steps carrying their packs on their backs. We were all dog-weary, I hadn’t had a decent wash all the time I had been on the Peninsular, and had about a fortnights growth of beard on my face, wearing a Tommy cap on my head, an Aussie tunic and Tommy trousers I for one must have looked a picture. When we got aboard the "Dongola" we all rushed the bathrooms for a bath, Hot cocoa was provided and clean sheets and a comfortable bed made us feel as if we had landed into Paradise. Looking from the ship away on to the position we had just left all one could see was the bright light of the burning stores, and about fifty yards from the hospital ship a British warship slowly passed us by. I was too dead tired to take any more interest in what was going on and getting down


[Page 67]
below to my bed I tumbled into it and slept soundly.We arrived in the harbour at Lemnos about eleven oclock. We had only been a few hours on the "Dongola" but we were splendidly looked after. The nurses on board were tumbling over themselves taking our photos.A rather amusing thing happened while the nurses were taking our photo some of the chaps who had cameras snapped the nurses at the same time. There were a large number of ships of all descriptions in the harbour mostly relating to the men of wars and hospital ships. Rumour has it that the Turks poured shrapnel all over the beach after we left this morning, luckily for us that we had flown. After we had dinner we embarked on the ships boats and were towed by a pinnace to the "Dunbar Castle". Col G. who was our O.C. up to two days ago but had left us before the evacuation, was on this ship. Some of our officers went aboard her for a short time. We then went to Mudros, one of the large towns on the Island. On our arrival there we had to march to Sarpi Camp. After a good deal of hanging about we found very uncomfortable quarters awaiting us.

Dec 21st Tues.
Heavy rain fell after breakfast. The roads were ankle deep


[Page 68]
in mud. We left Sarpi Camp for No 3 A.G.H. In order to avoid the muddy roads we sailed over in small boat across a bay in which there were a great many brightly coloured boats of the sailing type presumably fishing boats belonging to the islanders.

Dec 22nd Wed.
R & I went for a walk around the villages which were widely scattered and built any old how. They were out of bounds to troops from twelve till five oclock. Later we saw a number of windmills situated on a raised part of the island. These windmills were built of stones and do not seem to change their position like the windmills that I have seen. We went over to the church which stood on the outside of the village. We could not get inside it but peering in through the window we saw figures painted in gaudy colours like those in R.C. Churches. The grave-yard surrounded the church and in the corner of the churchyard was a small house into which the bones of those, after they have been a certain time in the earth are thrown. This little house was half full of human bones of all kinds. Rather a strange custom and gruesome manner of doing things. A military graveyard begun


[Page 68]
since the troops arrived here is growing rapidly. It is being well kept. 
We are having a very easy time at present and wandering over these fields one felt as if they were free men again, we are at present free from all military restraint. The old farmer ploughing with the old fashioned wooden plough drawn by a pair of bullocks, The women washing their clothes at the well outside of the village, Little children carrying buckets of water from the well and the birds singing in the fields makes a very pretty scene. We parted the village school door. It, being open and hearing the sound of many children’s voices in an unknown tongue we looked inside. There was the old schoolmaster, a venerable old man seated on a high chair and a desk in front of him giving lessons of some nature or other to a big number of Greek children. The children were all attention when we got to the door but one or two of them noticed us and and the signal was going round the room so that we thought that it would be better to leave them. At present everything is bare and barren on the island but as far as I can learn things are very much different in the summer time. There are a large number of


[Page 70]
military hospitals on Lemnos island. They are all very well laid out and are principly tents with a few weather board buildings. The land is covered with stones and these have been utilized to decorate the outside of the tents.

Dec 23rd Thursday
A large mail received by our unit. Received two parcels and newspapers and letters from home. They were all very acceptable at this time. No bread for tea, so that the contents of the parcels came in very handy. The large ship "Aquatania" which is now a hospital ship has arrived in the harbour. It is the largest ship in the world at present. The sunsets are beautiful here.

Frid 24th
Went out to see if we could find Johnny L. but was not successful. Got a billy can full of good things sent by the people of Australia. There is one given between every two men. The billy that D & I got contained one tin of Tobacco and packet of cigarette papers, one pair of socks, one toothbrush, one tube toothpaste, safety pins, buttons, knitted face washer, one tin vaseline, packet Boracic acid, cake chocolate, writing pad, mirror, bootlaces, chewing gum, leather Kangaroo and Patriotic button. All the empty


[Page 71]
places in the tin were lightly packed with good wishes. A Christmas feeling prevails in the air at present. A few chaps went round the hospitals in a motor lorry singing Xmas Carols.

Dec 25th Sat. Xmas.
Paraded at eleven o-clock and attended church. Had Plum Pudding for dinner. This P.P. was also provided by the people of Aust-- Took a walk through one or two of the Greek villages. The houses are built of freestone but in an irregular fashion. No regular streets abgout the place. Nearly every house had turned itself into a place for selling luxuries, Chocolate, oranges, nuts, tin fruit, sardines, biscuits, figs etc were for sale but at exorbiant prices. Still so crowded were these small villages withtroops and there was such a demand for these luxuries that even at exorbiant prices these luxuries were being sold in large quantities. 
Scattered all around these village streets were refuse of all descriptions. Orange skin, papers, tins galore, gave the place a very unwholsome appearance. Between selling luxuries, the women washing soldiers clothes, and the men rowing boats about from one place to another the islanders must be making a mint of money. The troops have made a splendid road over the island.


[Page 72]
Outside of the village the inevitable game of pitch and toss is being played by the troops, especially the Aussies, for large sums of money. Nothing less than notes being taken. One Greek youth was playing at an anchor board. He was only about fourteen years of age, and he had won about thirty bets without a loss. 
Others spent there time playing football and the usual excitement reminded one of Saturday afternoon games at home. During the forenoon D.R.I. went through the Egyptian camp. They are a labour corps helping to make roadways on the island. They look a dirty, miserable, set of individuals and are of all ages. They are dressed in the most grotesque manner imaginable. It seems that they pick up any old piece of clothing that they find lying about and wear it. The result is one sees them going about dressed up in old pyjama suits, Overcoats blankets etc and these, in conjunction with their own native dress make them look ridiculous in the extreme. Their chatter, chatter all the time they are working makes one wish them far enough away. A big number of them have died here. We passed their graveyard, each grave being marked by stones gathered from round about. 
A general air of jollity is prevailing about the camp to-day.

Dec 26th Sun.


[Page 73]
Had route marches to-day in order to give us exercise. There was quite a spring touch about the air which made walking a great pleasure indeed. We have got very comfortable quarters, a big contrast from the miserable existence which we had, when we were on our way to Anzac, at this place. We had evidence of the strict discipline of the so-called British Army. Two young fellows were standing tied to a post. This punishment they had got for purely minor offences.
Men in the Aussie army do things ten times worse and get nothing done to them for it.

Tuesd. Dec 28th
Since coming to this island I have witnessed some of the most beautiful sunsets and sunrises that I have ever seen. Read A. Proctor’s "Legends and Lyrics". 
We were all put on fatigue work for No 3 A.G.H. What a grousing we had over it and it ended more in comedy than in work. Being fatigue for a unit that has plenty of men of their own does not go down very well with us, who have just come off the peninsular. Especially so when the N.C.O.s are trying to bully us into it. 
In the evening we went to a Lecture on "Canada" given by Capt Frost, a Canadian Chaplain attached to one of the hospitals


[Page 74]
The Lecture was very good and the songs sung which included "The Maple Leaf" "Annie Laurie" "Home Sweet Home". Imitation of the bagpipes on the mouth organ were greatly applauded by the large audience.

Dec 29th Wed.
Route marching and drill are becoming a daily occurrence now. The officers say that they want to keep us fit. Our officers all being medical men they would be better to leave the drill alone, as they only make laughing stocks of themselves when they attempt to give commands. In the afternoon we went to one of the villages. The same crowded streets and the orange sellers doing a roaring trade. Came across the ancient and the modern in one house. An old woman was busy seated at the doorway of her house spinning wool by hand. It was pretty to see her deftly spin a nice even thread of wool by her hand. Inside the doorway of the same house a young woman was working away on a Singers sewing machine. Looking inside some of the houses of these villagers they look very clean and nice but simply furnished.

Dec 30th Thurs.
Went a long route march over the hills to the thermo springs which have a curative effect it is said. The march was about fifteen miles. This range of low hills are of a volcanic nature.


[Page 75]
There were some pretty pieces of country situated amongst those barren hills. We marched along the splendid road that has been made here, when we got outside of the long line of tents we cut across country on to a narrow and rough path on which we could only walk in single file. As we climbed up the hills we passed villages which have been built, very high up and the higher lands are used for sheep rearing. Herds of sheep and goats are all over the hills. Some of the sheep have bells hanging round there necks and there moving about gave a very pleasing sound in the still quietness of the land. After a little refreshment we went in and had a sulphur bath. This was paid for by one of our odfficers. This sulphur bath was very refreshing. It came from out of the earth and was exceedingly hot. The room was lined with enamel tiles. The water poured out into four basins and by means of tins we poured the hot sulphur water over us. 
We returned by short cuts to the camp again and arrived back about four o’clock.

Dec 31st Frid.
Dreamt that I had been taken prisoner by the Turks and after going through various unpleasant experience I was awakened by a tremendous noise of sirens foghorns etc going off. They caused a tremendous noise the reason being that they were


[Page 76]
welcoming in the New Year. The three Tommy Officers who were on the peninsular with us left the unit to-day. 
New Years Day 1916
Very quiet day. Roads too muddy for walking. Went to a concert held by No 2 Canadian stationary.

Jan 2nd Sun.
The large Hospital Ship "Britannia" came into the bay to-day.

Jan 5th Wed.
Very stormy to-day. Storm played havoc with our tents. Inoculated and specimen of blood extracted from our ears. Cases of meningitis are said to have been amongst us. Some of the boys suffered from the inoculation considerably and all had a look of absolute misery about them from the effects of the inoculation.

Jan 6th Thurs.
Five of our number were transferred to hospital, sick.

Jan 7th Fri.
Feeling much better today. Fatigue work for No 3 G.H. Treating the work as a huge joke. Exasperating the bullying Sgt. Major of No 3 G.H. counted out. Went for the O.C. but he could do no good whatever No 3 A.G.H. men loafing in their tents and have the audacity to ask us to work for them. The Army makes men chronic


[Page 77]
grumblers.

Whither it was for spite, or what it was I do not know but we had onions cooked with their skins on for dinner to-day. Reported it to the Orderly Officer. As per usual, no satisfaction.

Jan 9th Sun.
Football match, Australian rules, between our Officers, N.C.Os. against men. The men win. Read and thoroughly enjoyed "Multitude and Solitude" by John Masefield.

Jan 10th Mond.
No 3 A.S.H. taking down this hospital as they are going to move. We are working more in harmony with now that their own unit men are working also.

Jan 12th Wed.
Read "Tom Sawyer" by Mark Twain. Fatigue work along with Tommies taking down the Hospital.

Jan 13th Thurs.
Paraded with full marching order to embark this morning. We are about the last Australian unit to leave Lemnos. 
There are so many Scots and English troops about here that taking a walk of an evening one feels like "bein at hame". The old familiar tongue is being spoken.

Jan 14th Frid.
Parade at seven forty five, Dress parade eight forty five.

Went on board the barge along with the sisters of No 2 Stationary Hospital. By it we were taken


[Page 78]
out to the Hospital Ship "Dunvegan Castle". This ship is not as good as the "Dongola".

Jan 15th Sat.
Heavy rain fell during the night and all day. The sea very choppy. Still in the harbour at Lemnos. No 2 S.H. who have been loading their hospital gear on board all day made a tremendous disturbance on board. They seem to have got a great deal of intoxicating liquors, the result is, the place is more like a rowdy public house on a Saturday night than a hospital ship.

Jan 16th Sun.
Went to the Church of England service to-day. The weather much improved. In No 2 S.H. still loading up their gear. The "Olympic" sailed passed us on its way out of the harbour.

Jan 17th Mon.
Sailed out of the harbour at eleven o’clock this morning. Fine weather and a calm sea. We sailed past many ships, warships etc and also the large hospital ship Mauratania as we sailed out of Lemnos Harbour. There were two good sized Hospital ships lying along side of the Mauratania and yet they looked like mere pigmies beside it. This made us realize how big the "Mauratania" is.

This ship the "Dunvegan Castle" has got the name of being a rocker and it is acting up


[Page 79]
up to its reputation. In spite of the fact that the sea is comparatively calm this ship is rocking considerably. A big number of Scotch chaps, mostly Aberdonians, are on the hospital staff of this ship. Read the "Mill on the Floss" by George Elliot. 
A concert was given by the R.A.M.C. on board. The songs and the accent of the homeland prevailed, naturally. The criticism of the Aussies, to me, was rather amusing. They said that it required an interpreter to understand what was said & sung, however, judging by the applause and the laughter amongst them they seemed to thoroughly enjoy themselves.

Jan 19th Wed.
No 2 S.H. have got their mail. Ours is said to have gone over to Tel-el-Kebir much to our disappointment. Reached the harbour of Alexandria between the hours of seven and eight this morning. There is lying near our ship a large number of sailing ships. They are said to belong to the Turks and have been captured by us. No 2 S.H. have a "Blow out" to-night. It seems that two of their officers have been promoted and to celebrate the occasion they have given the staff some drink. The hullabaloo can be better imagined than discribed. The noise of their loud laughter


[Page 80]
and the looseness of their tongues with rude jest along with the fumes from the beer and the smoke of their pipes are to say the least of, disgusting.

Jan 20th
Finished reading "A Son of Hagar" by Hall Caine.

Jan 21st
Tugged up to the wharf about two thirty. An exciting thing happened as we were being tugged up the harbour. A few of the native boatmen who pester our lives out in these harbours were sailing near the ship. Our propellor suddenly began to work causing a kind of suction and it was with great difficulty that these boats got free of it. One boat with a man and a boy in it upset but were saved.

[Transcriber's note: 
Pg. 9. Mamalukes = Mamluks
Pg. 78. Mauratania = Mauretania]

[Transcribed by Gail Gormley, Adrian Bicknell for the State Library of New South Wales]
