Mitchell Library, State Library of New South Wales

Oscar Rhodes diary, 26 June 1915-4 April 1916
MLMSS 1199/Item 1

[Transcriber’s note: Corporal Rhodes enlisted on 26 April 1915 at Victoria Barracks and was transferred from Infantry to the Signalling Depot on 28 April 1915. He was attached as a Signaller to the 29th Battalion, 5th Brigade. The diary begins with his journey on the S/S "Berrima" departing from Sydney on 26th June 1915 to his arrival at Port Suez where he disembarked and travelled by train to a camp at Heliopolis, Egypt. In August 1915 he went to Lemnos and on to Gallipoli. He describes in detail the action around him at Gallipoli. Because of his journalistic and shorthand abilities he was sent to the Australian and New Zealand Headquarters and was taken on the Divisional Staff as Clerk to Colonel Braithwaite. Various extracts from newspapers, wireless messages and War Office messages are quoted in the diary. He became ill with lumbago and jaundice and was evacuated from Gallipoli on 2 December 1915 on board the S/S Oxfordshire and was taken into hospital in Cairo 5 December. When able to, he carried out some guard and clerical duties in the camps in and around Cairo. He spent Christmas 1915 in Egypt.


[Page 1]

"My Service with the A.I.F."

Recorded by No. 35, Cpl. O. Rhodes, 20th Bn. 5th Brigade, A.I.F.


[Page 2]

Rhodes No. 35

No. 35 Pte. Oscar Rhodes
Signaller,
A Co. 20th Battalion
5th Brigade
A.I.E.F.

Mother’s Address – 88 Johnston St., Annandale, Sydney, N.S.W.

Wife’s Address – "Doncaster", 4th Avenue, Campsie, Sydney, N.S.W.


[Page 3]

The World War

Rough Diary of my Service in A.I.E.F.

Enlisted 26/4/15 at Victoria Barracks. Entered camp at Liverpool 21/4/15. Transferred from Inf. to Signalling Depot 27/4/15?. Subsequently attached as Signaller, 20th Battalion, 5th B’de.

26th June 1915

Battalion left Liverpool Camp at 8.30 a.m. & entrained for Woolloomooloo Bay where we boarded troopship "Berrima" for port "unknown" (rumours said Egypt). Wife, Father, Mother & Sister met procession from Central Railway Stn. at Goulburn & Elizabeth Streets & accompanied me to steamer, except Dad who having Mab in his arms had to break off at Oxford St. Had a great send off. A crowd of small motor boats loaded with friends of troops, accompanying Berrima to Heads. A rough night out, many sick myself O.K.

[Indecipherable] Liverpool 9-5 a.m. – left Heads about [indecipherable]


[Page 4]

[Paragraph of shorthand crossed through.]

Sunday 27th June 1915

Service in morning. Nothing else of particular moment.

Monday 28th June 1915

Arrived Port Phillip about midday. Anchored off Williamstown, near Idly br. and took off a couple of hundred Victorian soldiers from steamer, then left for sea again, passing Queenscliff about 9 p.m.


[Page 5]

Tuesday 29 June 1915

Nothing of moment. Slept on deck to avoid close atmosphere of mess deck.

Wednesday 30th June 1915

4½ days out: life aboard ship already becoming monotonous. Slept below: very uncomfortable.

Thursday 1st July 1915

Rough sea all day with strong head wind – the latter has been encountered all the way – things not all violets aboard – very damp. Slept below in consequence. Pleasant dreams of home as usual.

Friday 2nd July 1915

Reveille sounded to the tune of a howling gale with heavy rain &


[Page 6]

a high sea. Shipping heaps of water down mess deck. Great amusement amongst men who by now are beginning to get their sea legs.

At about 8.30 a.m. with a great rain-storm appeared on the western horizon & travelling with great rapidity soon enveloped the approaching ship in a dense cloud of rain, hail & brine from the angry tumultuous sea. The wind blew with hurricane force but the good ship "Berrima" stuck to her task. The disturbance passed as quickly away as it had meteorically appeared & within the space of 15 minutes from striking the ship had passed away to eastward leaving us on the panting on the bosom of the cruelly beaten sea.


[Page 7]

Saturday 3rd July 1915

Watch on bridge 8 am to 12 noon – 8 pm to midnight – a stormy day with fierce head winds & rain squalls. Passed Albany to the northward, a good many miles south at about mid-day. "Berrima" proved herself a good sea boat but a perfect devil as far for shipping seas f’ward. Our mess deck frequently drenched down companion way & saloon deck wet all over. Heard frequent complaints about uncomfortable conditions aboard, men smoking in latrines & lavatories to avoid dampness overhead.

Sunday 4th July 1915

A brighter day – sunshine with pleasant southward breeze – mess orderly. Watch duties cancelled by Captain of ship.

Monday 5th July 1915

Monotonous day – buck concert at night – the monotony of the voyage is depressive & becoming more accentuated every day. Due west of Sydney at noon.


[Page 8]

Tuesday 6th July 1915

A pleasant day on the calm bosom of the Indian Ocean. A gentle S.W. zephyr did little to disturb the tranquility of the day. The blue dome above was unflecked by clouds & reflected itself in the unruffled water unsparingly. Beyond A lazy swell, wh to the troops had the effect of a sweet lullaby on a new born child, predominated throughout the day. One accident marred the day. We lost our mascot – Miss Wallaby – overboard. Whether this be an ominous sign, we do not know – at any rate, her loss was soon forgotten wh spells much for the optimism of the troops.

The journey is becoming tiresome in its dull monotonous routine – deck concerts help one at night to dispel gloomy thoughts.


[Page 9]

Wednesday 7th July 1915

Washing day – a unique & novel experience. Sunshine & rain during the day. Slept on deck atmosphere too close below – pleasant dreams of home.

[Paragraph crossed out]

Thursday 8th July 1915

Warmer weather – becoming more pronounced every day.

[Paragraph crossed out]

Keeping in great trim – boxing & physical exercises practiced daily. Feel a little tight across chest but nothing serious.


[Page 10]

Friday 9th July 1915

A hot oppressive day – "full marching orders" parade. The atmosphere is thick & muggy, & the troops perspire freely & curse the stifling heat. As we approach the equator each day, warmer conditions prevail. Discarded cardigan jacket for the first time – others throwing off thick underwear. Rush for saloon & boat decks at night. The dull routine of ship life is unbearable – my restless nature craves for greater activity & change of purview. Nothing to see from day to day beyond the limitless expanse of the ocean – not a ship sighted for over a week.

Saturday 10th July 1915

Another hot day, calm sea – awnings necessary on well & boat decks. Boxing contest B Co. afternoon. Col. Lamrock & other officers present. Some good stoush, with a minimum of skill. One clean knock-out. Despite the uneventful voyage with its monotonous daily life, the troops display a remarkable buoyancy of spirits. Whether they realize the seriousness of the work before them in a few weeks, they do not show it by their attitude on board. One would think they were on a huge picnic or harbour excursion – their happy disposition speaks volumes for their heroic self-sacrifice for the great cause.


[Page 11]

Sunday 11 July 1915

Rose at 4.30 a.m. The stars shone white & as dawn broke across placid surface of the ocean, I felt a new self arise in me – the morning was so peaceful & majestic, the sun as it rose through threw a golden glory over the distant horizon, & finally appeared in a great white disc in all its glittering heat. A ragged edge of clouds, low down, turned like red hot coals, & the sea between the ship & the distant flaming orb became a molten mass, magnificent in its grandeur & at which the eye could gaze but for a glimpse second, so powerful was the sheen. A new self – yes, like dead scales the superficialities, the falsities, the habits of life of the world I have left behind seemed for the instant, whilst I gazed upon that awe-inspiring scene, to drop from me. Romance & a keen observation of beauteous nature engendered & fostered in me from that moment a feeling of love for all things beautiful & serene, and I offered a silent prayer to heaven that I was alive to appreciate the significance of the mighty splendour of that glorious sunrise.

[Paragraph crossed out]

Position of ship about 15 degrees south of equator – 15 by 80 north.


[Page 12]

Monday 12th July 1915

Burning hot day – calm sea – little breeze. Stifling conditions aboard – nothing of moment, mess orderly.

Tuesday 13th July 1915

First sign of flying fish – huge schools all day. Finals of "B" Co.’s boxing contests.

[Paragraph crossed out]

Wednesday 14th July 1915

Anniversary of establishment of French Republic & Fall of the Bastile. Half holiday on board. Officers’ dining saloon gaily bedecked with flags at night, & champagne, beer & cigars enjoyed with riot enthusiasm. Troops also celebrated the event with – sour bread, marmalade, & shadow tea. Crossed the Equator about 7 or 8 p.m. Nearing the equator, officers enjoyed a Father Neptune pageant


[Page 13]

which the troops could hear but not see. "What the eye don’t see the heart don’t grieve."

Rabbit diet for dinner getting mighty monotonous – insipid, tough, & boney.

Day was intolerably hot & muggy.

Thursday 15th July 1915

Equatorial weather with a vengeance. Blistering heat. Scarce a ripple on the sea. Sour bread & corned horse for dinner. Complained about bread but was given the option of hard biscuits for 3 days or continuance of bread. "This is the life." Crossed the Equator at noon. Half holiday. Neptune’s sports & boxing championships.

Friday 16th July 1915

Uneventful.

Saturday 17th July 1915

Fresh westerly – heavy swell. Boxing semi finals on saloon deck – rough conditions at night – saloon deck port side frequently awash – slept below – bad night – ship rolling heavily – about 4 a.m. all awakened by terrific thump on ship’s side & scattering of crockery, plates, boxes & other gear. Many thought it was a collision so great was the noise. When we rose at Reveille the mess deck was strewn with a mass of gear – from plates, knives, forks, cups, cheese, butter, clothes etc. In fact everything had been shifted by the impact of the night – wind blowing strong from W – proximity of coast no doubt the cause – expect to pass Aden during day or night.

Sunday 18th July 1915

Hellish weather – monsoon – decks awash all day.

Boat changed her course about 2 pm to due west from NW, as we approach Gulf of Aden. Then we received the full blast of the terrific wind & storm wrack – great green seas came at us as if determined to envelop us in one huge swallow & thumped down on the deck every minute or two like mighty knocks from a gigantic hammer. The ship alternately rolled & pitched & the storm continued late into the night. Lily two years old today.


[Page 14]

Monday 19th July 1915

Daybreak saw the storm spent of its previous day’s fury & we were able to walk about the deck with some degree of ease & pleasure. Mess orderly.

A pleasant afternoon with Southern Arabia on our right. Calm seas with cool breeze tempering suns rays. Due north Cape Gardifue noon, NW comes island "Socotra".

Tuesday 20th July 1915.

Approaching Aden. Steamers becoming frequently – passed Harrison Liner – Aden to India – at about noon. Others sighted.

Hot close evening – ships in the night spoke 3 cruisers – Japs it was said, flashlights signalling & shore fires. Passed through Hell’s Gate at about 3 am

Received first wireless concerning war to the effect that Gen. French had reported that Germans were active on the French Frontier & had gained trenches but had been repulsed. Message posted on saloon deck at about 8 p.m. Dated "London official 20th July 1915".

Wednesday 21st July 1915

In the Red Sea – calm sea – muggy & sticky atmosphere – at 7 o’clock 3 ships in sight to the north – a large passenger, small packed & cargo in light trim – we soon passed them & they quickly faded away in the haze.

No Parades a/c excessive heat.

Passed the 4 Brothers & 12 Apostles during day, the former on African side, the latter Arabian side. How awesome & grand are these lone sentinels of the Red Sea. Barren huge rocks rising in pyramidical shape for the most part & towering into the sky. As we passed each group of the Apostles with their white lighthouse perched on their highest point, I could not reconcile


[Page 15]

myself to imagine how one could live in such strange solitude. Yet the lighthouse keeper lives there & what a hermit’s life it must be. No companionship nor life, nor sign of it except the passing of a steamer in the distance.

Thursday 22nd July 1915

Nothing of moment – issued with identification disc & Pay Book. Continuance of "No Parades".

Friday 23 July 1915

A beautiful day – cool breeze. Expect all these to be posted on arrival at Suez. None of previous letters dropped at Aden. Will all go in one bunch at Suez.

Saturday 24 July 1915

Cooler weather. Pleasant head wind. Evening saw us in sight of African coast & Sinai on the east. How peculiarly awe-inspiring are these glimpses of historic landmarks. The aspect of the country is volcanic & its rugged bareness & dull brown color vividly contrasts with the bright blue sea & dashing foam. Sinai, for instance, commencing low down rises in irregular slopes till its summit reaches to the very heavens & then gradually fades away to the sea again in the same fashion as it rises. What food for thought & quiet muse for the dreamer. As I gazed I recalled the incidents of this land of the Bible & I could not realise that before me was that Sinai where the Ten Commandments were given to this world by the Maker of All.

Sunday 25 July 1915

Arrived at Port Suez 9 o’clock. What a picturesque change & what magnetic charm has this first glimpse of this new life to me. The rippling impact of the port gleams with opalescent beauty & the yellow sand dunes contrast vividly with the changing hues of the heated atmosphere. A weird & bizarre mountain lies


[Page 16]

on our left & ahead, a quarter mile off lies the town of Suez, its buildings resting low upon the water. The port is full of shipping & everything around us is life.

This contact with civilization has put good humour into the Troops. In full service dress they crowd the rails & bargain for fruit, sweetmeats & P’Cs with the miscellaneous crowd of Arabs & other dusky skinned desert sons who have tied their boats to the ship’s sides. I have fed on Barbary grapes & Turkish Delight & bought Post Cards of Port Said to send home.

How happy & contented I feel. My whole soul harmonises with the perfect serenity of the scene around me.

What a picture for an artist to conceive, or put to canvas. Not a wisp of cloud mars the blue dome overhead, a soft zephyr plays & gambols around us just sufficient to temper the hot sun’s rays & cause a dancing ripple upon the Sea. & Near us the water sparkles in light blue and as the eye travels towards the shore becomes darker & finally ends near the golden sands in an infinite royal blue. My opinion of "far fetched" paintings has changed. I have looked upon a picture more dazzling in its varied hues than any master painter could conceive.

As noon approached the cool wind of the morning was consumed by a boiling sun & from then till sunset the heat was unbearable. Evening however brought the pleasant conditions of the early morn.

An Indian troopship "Zeesta" arrived during afternoon with Gurkhas & Sikhs on board for Marseilles. Our officers entertained their officers at dinner on "Berrima".

Monday 26th July 1915

Disembarked inside breakwater at about 9.30 a.m. Indescribable state of things aboard. Gear & kit bags everywhere. The quiet life of the past four weeks has now been replaced by hustle & bustle on every hand. The troops welcome the change & realise that an active life is far preferable to lazy idle routine aboard. They see what


[Page 17]

duty they have ahead of them & are fully aware of its seriousness.

Major Murphy speaking to A Co. last night appreciably affected the men with the earnestness of his remarks. He spoke to them as a father to his children & warned them that perhaps a fortnight would seem them all in the firing line.

This morning before embarkation I learnt with sorrow that an officer, Mr. Richards, had gone down with appendicitis & would be left behind to undergo an operation.

We left Suez at 11 o’clock in a rickety third class train – the carriages not being much superior to the boxes I used to house pigeons in.

The journey was full of incident – the Govt. buildings at Suez were unique & austere, clean & with the stamp of civilization upon them. They were in striking contrast to the Square and houses of the Natives.

With a squeaking & grinding of wheels we moved out into the desert & soon the second & last port of call, the good ship "Berrima" & all kind friends aboard her faded away to our rear.

The land through wh we travelled appeared to be thoroughly irrigated & exceptionally fertile. Passing through huge palm groves, field of maize & other cereals I was sensibly appreciative of the industry here shown by the inhabitants in their attempt to turn the arid desert to some use.

At Mariche, a small unpretentious station, we bought watermelons, pomegranates, dates, nuts, figs & grapes,


[Page 18]

& had a "grand banquet". The journey was full of such incidents – at Zazazig we were allowed to get off the train to stretch our legs & buy what refreshments we desired.

We arrived at Heliopolis at about 6, after a short march from the Station.

Much impressed by the residential appearances of these suburbs of Cairo. Wide tar-paved streets with mostly big cement colored houses bearing the resemblance of flats. The majority contain gardens & everything has an air of grandeur about it.

We camped on the desert – great many were already under canvas – British, Victorians, New Zealanders & N.S.W. In fact all Australia is represented.

Great bustle in camp. Cheered all along the way of march. Glad to get rid of packs.

Slept on the desert outside mess-room which is built of light wood.

Tuesday 27th July 1915

Reveille at 5. Breakfasted at Heliopolis at a French Restaurant. Heliopolis is within Camp bounds. Pass needed for Cairo.

Heliopolis I find is regarded by the natives as a Holy Town. Here it was, I am told, that Joseph converted Mary & wooed her. What a mixture of humanity is here. Arabians, Soudanese, French, Italian, Swiss – in fact all the polyglot crowd of the Northern Africa. What a shrill cacophony greets our ears – the bargaining natives swarm round us with their goods & exhort us to buy at extravagant figures. As we sit at breakfast small Arab boys, dirty & ill clothed, cry for backsheesh & grovel & scramble in the dust for cigarette ends.

Breakfast cost us about two piastres, equivalent to 5d. in English money.

Our O.C., Mr. Richards, arrives from Suez.

Wednesday 28th July 1915

Daily Routine – Reveille 5. Early parade 6 to 9 a.m. Breakfast 9-15 – as soon after early parade as is possible. Lecture 11 to 12. Parade 5 to 7 p.m. The morning parade is a killer – 3 hours on an empty stomach – we shall without doubt get "fit" under these conditions or "go out to it" altogether. As it is impossible to drill for any length of time in the midday heat


[Page 19]

it reason for this early parade is obvious. Visited Heliopolis at night.

Thursday 29th July 1915

Beginning to get things in shape. Moved into large tent – square-shaped & airy. We sleep, but do not mess in this.

Anniversary of wedding. Pleasant thoughts.

Friday 30th July 1915

Mail closed. Sent 4 P.C’s to Mabel, 1 each to Dad, Mum & Gran. Had a chat with Arthur Gray. How I am longing to hear from home. My only worry is for those far away. How dear are they to me.

Saturday 31st July 1915

Visited Cairo during afternoon. This Hell on Earth alluring & repulsive in its vice, crime, & tartuffism cannot be described here. I do not need any notes to remind me of its features. Suffice it to say that prostitution, beastiality, drunkenness, crime are its chief characteristics. All the sinister temptations of the devil lurk here to catch the unwary. Sordid & debauched. Cairo is a pestilential cesspit, a creator of ‘evil & a destroyer of souls’. "Wazzar" burnt down by troops.

Sunday 1st August 1915

Visited Cairo. How wonderful is the fascination of the place. Though nauseating beyond description something draws you on & so the Master Fiend finds heaps of victims. His greedy talons are about everywhere. Why does not the Almighty wreak some mighty vengeance on this rotten hole as he did with Sodom & Gomohrn.

Monday 2nd August 1915

Mess orderly. Usual routine.

Tuesday 3rd Aug. 1915
Wednesday, 4th Aug. 1915
Thursday 5th Aug. 1915
Friday 6th Aug. 1915

Usual routine.


[Page 20]

Saturday 7 Aug. 1915

Sunday 8th Aug. 1915

Appreciably surprised at slovenly style of Church Parade. No discipline, smoking, talking & general irregularity. Platoon Sergeants worse than the men. The whole show simply a parody.

Monday 9th Aug. 1915

Nothing of moment

Tuesday 10th Aug. 1915

Usual routine.

Wednesday 11th Aug. 1915

Usual routine. Informed of the fall of Achi-Baba (rumour). Wrote Mab another letter (unfinished).

Thursday 12th Aug. 1915

Warned that we shall leave for the front in 10 days. [text crossed out]

All the afternoon great excitement & endless rumours re Dardanelles. Musketry course being pushed on with greatest possible speed & it is on everbodys lips that we may move off at any moment. There is


[Page 21]

an air of expectency everywhere & we are prepared for anything in the way of orders.

Rumour has it that the 1st of the 20th & 21st Reinforcements have been cut up at the Dardanelles & that Lieut. Harper, who accompanied us on the "Berrima" has been killed. (All wrong.)

I write by dull candle light on the dark shades of our tent; around me my comrades earnestly discuss the chances of the future & their serious faces & talk alternately merry, happy-go-lucky, & lurid in its expressiveness, betrays their determination to carry things out with a big heart & to the end. "Do or die" is our motto.

[Paragraph crossed out]

Friday 13th Aug. 1915

Rumours & rumours of war. The whole camp is seething with


[Page 22]

excited expectancy. "Off on Sunday" is the general thing. We were all startled tonight by the news that the Turks had surrendered unconditionally on a/c of Bulgaria having declared war against her. But I doubt. We are still packing up & we are off there’s no doubt. Long expected mail in.

[Paragraph crossed out]

Saturday 14th Aug. 1915

Pay day. £1 received.

First musketry course. Not bad.

[Paragraph crossed out]


[Page 23]

Sunday 15th Aug. 1915

Attended Holy Communion.

Sent further letter to Mab: also New Testament (registered). Sent further P C’s to all.

Struck camp at 4 p.m. & warned to be in readiness to march off at 11 p.m. Carter, Keating & myself paid a final visit to Cairo.

Monday 16th Aug. 1915

Entrained at Zeitoun at 1-30 am for Alexandria. Arrived latter place about 6 am. Embarked at once on S/S "Saturnia". Met Arthur Gray on board. Had a long chat with him about home etc. Left Alexandria about 7 pm.

The "Saturnia" is the dirtiest most stinking ship I have met in my experience. Packed like sardines aboard (3500 troops about) the atmosphere in the mess decks below where we are supposed to sleep, is foetid & suffocating. The lavatories & latrines are unapproachable, human excrement & an indescribable mass of filth in the shape of decomposed meat, bread, straw & other refuse floats around in rank pools of urine & putrid water. Little fresh water is available & the food is disheartening both in quality & quantity. I have heard frequent complaints of bugs & lice & body vermin & I am not surprised. The ship is a disease breeder & thank God our journey upon it will be short.

I sleep on deck where one has an opportunity of breathing the pure ozone.

Tuesday 17th Aug. 1915

Life belt parade at 3 pm. Quite a parody of a show in itself. I can imagine the state of affairs on the sound of an alarm. Hell would then be let loose & mad riot reign supreme. There are two battalions & several "details" aboard. Life belts are short & the boats are not "efficient" by any means. Inoculated for Cholera 4 pm..


[Page 24]

Wednesday 18th Aug. 1915

This morning I am struck by the extreme calm & beauty of the blue Meditteranean & how peaceful a scene it must be to the roaring torment of war which is being raged not many miles ahead. Today we are at rest on the calm bosom of a summers sea – tomorrow, aye, tomorrow, perhaps the dread torpedo will send us to the bottom unwarned & to die like rats in a trap. For we are in the extreme danger zone now of the enemy’s submarines. Only 25 miles ahead one day August 13 last week a troop ship Royal Edward (?) containing drafts & reinforcements for the Med. Imp. force was sunk sent to a watery grave & only 25% of the brave fellows aboard were saved. And so we sail along taking the same risk. A great risk but how great is the spirit of our troops. Happy & debonair they sing like so many larks on a bright April morn & their hearts are big & strong. They have resigned themselves to the inevitable.

We passed the Grecian Archipellago during the day – Tinos, Denos & Sirra (?). These towns nestle in the side of steep dun brown hills or along the sea shore & are quite bizarre & picturesque.

A beautiful sunset – here we saw "the roseate hues of the sun-burnt west" in all its magnificent glory.

Attended Holy Communion – Arthur Gray present.

Thursday 19th Aug. 1915

Arrived at Lemnos at daylight. A hive of shipping – warships, troopships, & merchantmen. Hospital Ships also frequent – I notice one of the latter named the "Dunluce Castle". Served with 200 rounds of ammunition each. Sent a P.C. to Mabel "Expect to be in action tomorrow".

Notice HMAS "Sydney" in harbour. Served with two days rations.

Friday 20th Aug. 1915

19th & Reinforcements of 18th, and 19th Bns., together with 5th Field Ambulance, left on S/S "Osmanieh"


[Page 25]

for Gallipoli at 7 p.m. 20th Bn left behind on "Saturnia".

Saturday 21st Aug. 1915

General clean up – ship now in a far cleaner condition than when we boarded her. The latrines are now fit for use & the ship is habitable.

This morning I have counted over 100 ships at anchor in the Bay – Mudros Bay as it is called. It is a circular bay of good proportions. The shore line is mostly tenanted by the military & seems as far as I can see from the ship to be under cultivation – fodder etc. About ½ mile (?) inwards the land rises by a series of gradual declivities & so the whole has the appearance of a huge basin. The mouth of the bay is narrow & is protected by booms & nets. The channel for entrance is narrow. Hostile ships, underwater craft etc are absolutely debarred from entering. The bay forms an excellent base.

Left Mudros Bay 5 pm for Gallipoli on S/S "Osmanieh". Great send off through lines of British, French & Russian battleships & cruisers. Noticed H.M.S. "Agamemnon".

Visibly impressed by speed of "Osmanieh" – travelling 18 knots easily. Did 26½ knots on trial speed. Belonged to Khedivial Mail Co., passenger route Alexandria to Constantinople. All lifeboats slung out & life belts ready. Boys in good heart, singing & laughing in chorus. The beginning of what we have longed for during months past is now at hand. What will the end be. Victory! Yes. Victory or nothing.

Arrived at Gaba Tepe Anzac (Gaba Tepe a few miles further south) at about 12 pm


[Page 26]

(midnight). Long before our arrival we could distinctly see the flash then the roar of the big guns fired from the warships off shore. It was a clear moonlight night, we were "all lights out", & we sped along the surface of the moonlit sea like a black phantom of the night. Quite distinct to our silent secrecy were the hospital ships flamboyant with their rows of green lights & huge red crosses brilliantly alight & their reflected beauty in the unruffled sea enhanced the charm & serenity of the night. Serene from the artist’s standpoint but from the material disturbed by the evidences of the proximity of grim war. We were bundled ashore in lighters attached to steam pinnaces & soon we landed at the primitive pier which gave us access to the spot where our brave heroes first landed & distinguished themselves as amongst the greatest soldiers in the world. A long tramp in the

Sunday 22nd Aug. 1915

Severed top of left forefinger with jack-knife.

After our landing we had a long tramp


[Page 27]

through sand ankle deep & of a stoney consistency (carrying rifle, equipment, pack, 200 rounds ammunition, flags). Passing through trenches 6 ft high for fully a mile we ascended a broken rocky barren defile becoming steeper & twisting snake like as we progressed & at last came to a halt in a Gully (known as "Red Gully" by the troops) where we lay down & rested our wearied limbs till daylight.

On awakening my eyes were crusted with dust & my parched throat cried aloud for relief. The country around us bore a remarkable appearance. Camped in a tortuous defile of narrow proportions with high broken hills of crumbling sun baked sand & soil practically devoid of vegetation, except for a few isolated patches of stunted prickly gorse. The whole scene at once conveyed to me the enormous difficulties & risks of the great tasks of our brave comrades who participated in that glorious charge


[Page 28]

wh has now become an historical event in the annals of military warfare & will be recorded as one of the most magnificent achievements in this great war of nations.

At All the night through I slept with "one eye open". My active brain ran riot & I was aflame with excited interest in my surroundings. The boom of big guns, the sharp rattle of machine guns & maxims, the ping & singing of bullets overhead & the screech of shells soon became familiar sounds & I was thunderstruck with at the equanimity with wh the troops accepted their new life.

An Indian camp is beside us – Punjabis Mule Corps – they are incessantly at work & their mules are continually passing us, laden with ammunition for the hill batteries. Our Indian friends have christened the Australians "The White Gurkhas" because of their great dash & daring. Apropos this, I was speaking to an English Tommy yesterday today & he was jubilantly enthusiastic


[Page 29]

regarding the Australians & New Zealanders. "Reckless beyond anything I have ever seen, their wonderful dash, daring, & eagerness for fight, has become an established fact," he concluded.

Our greatest pest here, outside Snipers’ bullets, is flies. They swarm around us in myriads & are aggravatingly persistent. The more you irritate them the more they attack & stick. They leave us as night falls but are with us again at daybreak.

We have not to remain here any great time. We leave tonight to support our brave comrades in action & we are glad of it.

Monday 23rd Aug. 1915

We moved out of camp last night at 7 pm At the foot of the pass where we had rested we entered a long line of trenches to the right, passed through the


[Page 30]

Indian camp & soon were in open country, enmeshed under foot with telephone lines (in communication from various batteries & outposts with Div. HQs) wh made our marching more difficult. Our magazines were charged with 10 rounds & we carried an additional 200. It was not long before the snipers found us out & we were peppered with lead from the at short intervals. The range however must have been difficult & no casualties resulted. Moreover we were protected by the shore batteries, mainly howitzers (N.Z. & English) with a range to 2000 yds. Turning to the right from the shore along wh we had been proceeding at a distance of about 200 yds. we soon came to Div. Hqs. Here we rested but as it afforded no great protection for such a large number of troops were we soon quickly moved on, taking an abrupt turn to the left & ascended a rocky pass between in single file, the track being only fit for mules. Simply a goat track.


[Page 31]

We had all expected to be in action before midnight but at 10 o’clock, when we had gained the saucer shaped crest of the pass, unexpected orders to bivouac were received. To the accompaniment of a Wagnerian Sonata of from hill batteries, natives & snipers we laid our wearied limbs on the hillside or on the sandy track & soon the most of us were in grateful sleep, profound & at times very musical. Wildron’s Hill is where we are now camped.

Tuesday 24th Aug. 1915

My notes now must be brief. I have not the time to write in detail. We have been troubled with snipers a great deal & they have also used machine guns on us. Several of our crowd have been hit, especially when they go for water & one man in B Co. was fatally wounded. Borchell, our


[Page 32]

officer’s orderly was hit & sent off to Heliopolis. He was a hale fellow well met & we are sorry to lose him.

The gallant 18th were in action Sunday night & Monday & suffered severely in an attack on a strongly defended hill. After taking five lines of trenches they were forced to retire & hold two, owing to their being outnumbered. They would have secured a decisive victory if sufficient reinforcements had arrived in time. As it was, report has it that only 300 men out of the whole battalion came through safely. They must have been cut up for the number of wounded being carried to the base hospital as we pass marched here on Sunday night were many & the stretcher bearers then reported that they had had a pretty heavy day.

Portion of the main Turkish railway


[Page 33]

line has been cut & our troops hold it. The shore & adjacent hill batteries have done particularly heavy damage during the last few days & the main objective, viz. to cut of supplies, is nearing completion. Captured Turkish Officers state that the Turks are willing to come to terms immediately but for the domineering German Officers who urge them on & tune them up with persuasive lies of Germany’s victories on land & sea. The Turks undoubtedly are losing heavily. From the crest of the hill above us we can see the Turkish trenches full of dead & our outposts report that on approaching them the stench is stifling. Many of the bodies are maggoty & decomposed. The Light Horse to the south of Anzac have been depleted considerably & report has it we have to relieve them in a few days. The trenches there are but 10 to 20 yds apart & hand grenades & bombs form a feature of the


[Page 34]

fighting. The Turks are magnificent sharpshooters but are mightily afraid of the bayonet. They fear the charge & depend upon hidden machine guns to do the work, & they ha the latter have certainly been the Australians greatest danger. I have seen the Turkish rifle & bayonet the former is lighter than our own .303 & the magazine is fixed, holds only 5 cartridges, there is no cut-off & no safety catch. The bayonet in comparison with our own is much shorter, like a dagger, but the bayonet standard is fashioned after our own.

Wednesday 25th Aug.

A day of startling incidents. Daylight was ushered in by a violent cannonade from Shore howitzers & hill batteries (4.7) of the Turkish position due east. The Turkish reply was at first very slow but as the morning progressed they began to get the range with shrapnel & landed alternately on the beach & hill very frequently. The damage however was insignificant. The screech


[Page 35]

of the shells overhead & the bursting of the enemy’s shrapnel & the frequent zips from the snipers kept us in our dug-out for the best part of the day. This kind of warfare is very discouraging to the non combatants as we were for we had no opportunity of giving a helping hand. The silent rifles of the Turkish snipers & their hidden positions protected them beyond approach.

At noon warned to be in readiness to move off at moments’ notice.

We are now receiving excellent rations, bacon, bread, onions, tea, jam, milk & rice each day – though the quantity issued is not very great.

We were not allowed to leave our position unmolested. We Signallers had were about to form up in line near the quartermasters stores when with received startling precision of shrapnel shell burst overhead. The concussion was


[Page 36]

frightfully severe, the air was filled with acrid & blinding smoke & the shrapnel refuse plugged & zipped in all directions. I distinctly felt the shock & was though not actually hit was sent back at least a couple of yds. The regrettable feature of the event was the loss of my old mate Tom Keating, who went down with a lump of iron in his left leg just above the ankle. He accepted his ill-luck with his usual equanimity. That is beyond a few lines of lurid Australian & the hope that the Turks who hit him would roast in hell before him, he simply assumed his broad grin & was carried off with the stretcher bearing swearing at him to keep his leg up. The Pioneer Sergeant, Collins, however, had his right leg badly smashed. The knee cap seemed to have been completely taken off & I noticed his muscles swelling to enormous proportions.


[Page 37]

He was attended to by the Bn. Dr. & I noticed our Chaplain, Capt. Singhe, also present. Collins was a chap I had much taken to, a fellow you could talk to with comradeship & bonhomie, & we were all sorry for him.

We were quietly departed sent off & after an hours march came to a halt once more in "Rest Gully" where we received orders to be in readiness at 6.20 next morning to relieve in the trenches.

I had a rotten time

Thursday 26th Aug. 1915

I had a restless night. Our Snipers on the hill above were very active & stray bullets from the enemy were continually plugging into the sand around us.

"Rest Gully" is becoming very dirty & a harbour for vermin, rats,


[Page 38]

cockroaches, & other lively & multitudinous insects. The dug-outs & terraces with which the limited confines of the place is being adorned are filthy with camp refuse & the continued habitation of so many Soldiers moving in & out has converted some parts of it into veritable dung heaps & rubbish tips. The troops sleep beside these & so their health is precariously endangered. This is a phase of active service conditions & outside snipers, bullets, shrapnel & no doubt is as great a danger to the lives of the troops as bullets, shrapnel, or bombs.

To date the good old 20th has suffered seventeen casualties.

We moved out again at 7 am & taking a circular move from the bottom of the Pass ascended a narrow mule track till we gained the trenches on the heights. Here we found the 8th A.L.H. (Victorians) whom we were to relieve.


[Page 39]

The trenches are an intricate maze & bear evidence of the patient & arduous work of the Sappers. From the hill, one commands a magnificent view of the Mediterranean sea ever still & opalescent. The "Triumph" & "Majestic" went down not far off. Destroyers steal literally in & out the bay & the guns of the battleships, shore howitzers, & field batteries roar in concert. Aeroplanes are active on reconaissance duty over the Turkish lines & I saw one pilot who ventured too low over the enemys fire. The shell burst within some yds of the machine but did no damage.

Re the 8th ALH. what pen can adequately describe the dread tortures of war the gallant body of 600 men have suffered. Thirteen to 15 weeks ago they entered the firing line with big & stout hearts, men in their physical prime & buoyant with enthusiasm & nerve in their work. Today they are a battered & torn regiment – they can muster about 200 whole men, & these are without stamina


[Page 40]

or nerve. They have lost their belly. Not that they have turned shirker but it has been knocked out of them. They have done all that men could do against great odds – they have proved themselves heroes. Contrary to my expectations they do not go on furlough but are being moved to another post in the field of operations – Table Top in left flank.

Russells Top at wh we are now stationed has been the scene of heavy & severe fighting. From here the 8th made their disastrous sorties. We have visual evidence of the result of this great charge in the long rows of Turkish & Australian dead that line the trenches not many yds. away. Leiut. Col White & Major Redford fell in this memorable fight & their the body of the latter has only just been recovered in a state of putrefaction for burial. There has been no armistice & the bodies of these brave leaders have lain rotting in the sun for days & days


[Page 41]

despite gigantic efforts on the part of Sappers to get to them. The remains of Major Redford have just been recovered & given decent burial. The remains of L. Col. White are within 10 yds. of our latest sap but the activity of the Turks disallows any attempt to remove them.

The Turk has become very saucy in his trench fighting wh game he plays "par excellence". In close work our men use only periscope rifles. The sharpshooting Turk is a considerable item & it is very unwise to show a head above the trenches.

The enemy are using a captured French 75 to great advantage. We receive a peppering morning & evening from this big gun. It creates great havoc wherever its shells lodge & blows trenches sky high. Today it has been particularly active & my dug-out is precariously within


[Page 42]

its range. This gun gives you no warning, it comes on you like a thunder clap, plugs into earth or stone 3 ft. deep & roars in its explosion like forty elephants run amok.

They also pump shrapnel into us about twice a day – but as with the 75 it is evident that the ammunition is very limited, otherwise our position would be certainly untenable. Their shrapnel, what they have of it, is very effective - forward 200 yds. by about 100 yds. wide.

Our fellows in the front trenches are suffering & undergoing great trials. Their Perhaps their worst enemy is the unendurable stench from the Turkish trenches where our own the bodies of our heroes lie rotting side by side with those of the enemy. Many are in a state of utter putrefaction & are swollen like poisoned pups


[Page 43]

or drowned rats. Our Sappers complain bitterly of the stench & many of them have given up sick at heart & physically overpowered. The swollen bodies at the least touch burst with the report of a rifle & the puss & stench squirts forward like water from a hose. Many of the bodies are maggoty & eaten away by rats & other vermin & the nauseating odor floats through the trenches with the evening breeze in stifling intensity.

This afternoon first issue of tobacco – 1 oz. each man, or packet of cigs. Matches also issued.

Friday 27th Aug. 1915

There has been fierce fighting on the left flank toward in the vicinity of Chocolate Hill & WW Hills. The attack was made at 4 p.m. & was covered by heavy Naval artillery. It raged


[Page 44]

for fully 2 hours. I had a full view of the battle. Terrific & terrible in its realism, it was but a flea bite compared the more I gazed upon it & its dreadfulness the more I was convinced of the folly of war.

There have been many such conflicts of late & the wearing down power of successful resistance is becoming each day more intensified. It has now resolved itself into a struggle of the trenches. Our main strategic objective is to cut off the Turkish supplies from the north to the south & so it is a game of patience & moral stamina. It is like hacking at the middle of a great trunk of hardwood & our forward movement must necessarily be laboriously slow.

Our O.C. has just informed me that our of the full complement of 18th Bn. Signallers, only 3 remain intact. This is the result of pushing them into the firing as infantry supports whereas the whole past training has been confined to signalling.

Our rations each day become more varied. We are now receiving bacon, cheese, bread, biscuits, tea, sugar, raisins, rice, beans, onions, potatoes, jam. There is plenty of it also. We each do our own cooking.

The 9th Light Horse have but 2 officers & 60 men left. They suffered terribly in the afternoon’s battle.


[Page 45]

Saturday 28th Aug. 1915

I made a round of the trenches here yesterday afternoon. Everything is in apple-pie order. The men are happy & contented & for raw soldiers display remarkable nonchalance in the dangers around them. Shrapnel whizzes & bursts overhead, machine guns spit their deadly pellets into the walls everywhere, the big 75 plugs into earth & rock & roars like thunder, yet our fellows spread their blankets out in dug outs & in the open & sleep as peacefully as new-born babes.

These trenches perched on the summit of a conical hill, 200 ft above the sea level represent to me a township as I have conceived existed in prehistoric days. We crawl in & out our dug-outs like moles & we sleep & live in dust. Some of us have accumulated beards of grotesque proportions & many have a striking resemblance of two-footed creatures I have seen in sketches of the days before Adam. Yet we are all in fighting quick & strong as horses & glad of the opportunity to get at the common enemy.

It is fitting to pay a tribute to the unremitting attention wh the authorities have paid to the hygiene. All latrines & such like conveniences are under the constant observance of a fatigue party & are daily disinfected or freshly dug so as to preserve to the utmost the good health of the soldiers. In f act, I have smelt less obnoxiousness here than I did at Liverpool in this regard.

The weather is now becoming cooler, the heat of the day is mildly tempered by soft zephyrs from the Gulf of Saros, the changeless blue of its mirrorlike surface ever smiling & glistening in the bright rays of a perfect golden sun. Towards each morn a light dew descends & heralds the close approach of winter. We have had no rain up to the present.

Tonight the rattle of machine guns from the surrounding hills reminds me of a copper on the boil, but magnified 10000 times.


[Page 46]

Sunday 29th Aug. 1915

A perfect day – quietness reigns supreme.

3 p.m. spoke to Richards re Report mentioned in Brigade orders for Aus. & N.Z. H.Q. Div. Referred to Major Wisdon in recommendation of the C.O. Produced copies of references.

Monday 30th Aug. 1915

Reported again to Major Wisdon 5th Bde Hqs at 9 am. Sent to Aus. & N.Z. Hqs. immediately & taken on Div staff as Clerk to Col. Braithwaite. Transferred to be applied for. Took over full equipment from 20th. These Hqs are situated on the beach halfway between Anzac & Wildrons Hill. We were shelled this afternoon consistently by a big gun from the direction of – doing great damage to mules & stores. A few men injured.

Monday 31 Aug. 1915

I am not yet satisfied whether I have done the right thing in leaving the 20th. Perhaps promotion will be the ultimate result. I expect it to be so. I am relieving a Sergeant who has been wounded. All the Clerks here carry a rank. All are New Zealanders however who receive less pay than the Australians. I am to get my Australian pay.

Wednesday 1st Sept. 1915

Nothing unusual. Obsessed with new duties.

Thursday 2nd Sept. 1915

Posted Mab a letter. Handed in to Censor 6.30 pm.

Friday 3rd Sept. 1915

No further letters yet. Sent Mab a Service Card. Have just heard that the troopship "Southland" has been torpedoed on her way here with some of the 6th A.I.B. on board. The 100 was drowned. The men took to the boats and the majority were saved.

Aeroplane reconnaissance by the Turks has been very active during the day. An unconfirmed report states that the Turks intend to make a general attack on all points in W before the 5th.

The general situation is too quiet for special comment. Operations are purely local & the incidents of the day are confined to the region, evening fire from torpedo destroyers shore batteries & nightly demonstrations with spasmodic replies from the Turks with shrapnel & machine guns.


[Page 47]

Saturday 4th Sept. 1915

Later intelligence re "Southland" is that when torpedoed the men took to the boats. They afterwards retook to the steamer wh was able to steam to Mudros. The Brigadier died from exposure & the casualties totalled only 19.

I am now surrounded with Generals, Colonels, Majors and all the elite of Military officialdom.

Gens. Chauvel, Russell, & Godley met last night & had a exchanged confidences. The breezy chatter of these gentlemen reached my ears frequently & Gen. Chauvel was not loth to borrow matches from me for wh he thanked me with abundant courtesy.

I caught the following excerpt from a little breezy humour exchanged between Gen. Chauvel & a few other of his contemporaries.

Gen. Chauvel: Have you got any matches.

Russ: No (turning to me) Rhodes just give the Gen. some matches will you.

Ed Essen – How are you getting on for feed Gen. – oh – so & so – I could relish some juicy roast beef & green peas.

Chorus: Ha Ha Ha

Dodd – What has happened to all our correspondence & "billet doux" lately.

Russell – I am afraid mine have perished on the high seas.

The Major: I received several petit brochures today.
The Major: Received several parcels today, no


[Page 48]

tobacco, damn it. There might have some lolly or cake. Oh, by the way Kettle (to a young staff Captain distinctly "a la militaire") Don’t forget tea at 4 pm tomorrow & some cake.

K – I shall be punctual to the minute
.
General Godly in the distance – Can’t you get some beer or porter.

Ryrie/Yes Sir/ Well get my dear fellow get it.

K to Dodd – When did you have a bath last. I had one on the Hos. ship the other afternoon.

Dodd – How delightful – but it so long ago since I enjoyed that luxury I would consider it sacrilege to put my clothes on again if I had one now.

The administration & executive control of the N.Z. & Aus. Div. has been entrusted to officers of the New Zealand Forces of which the general staff is entirely composed. Gentlemen all – indefatigable workers ever courteous amidst an ever flowing rush of active duty. They have tackled & borne this huge responsibility with untiring zeal & uncommon skill and the splendid organised system wh they have now set up is indisputable evidence of their fitness for the job


[Page 49]

H.M.S. Endymion shelled The Nek & position of Battleship Hill near Walkers Ridge at 5 this afternoon. She stood well into the beach. Official news re attack on Hill 60 (dated 3/9/15,) 27 to 29th Aug. Hill 60 a little to the north of Kaiajik Aghala.

The attack was entrusted to Maj Gen Cox. on the right by 350 rifles of 4th & 5th Aust. Brigades, centre by 400 rifles of the N Z Mtd Rifles and 5th A. Brigade, & on the left by 250 rifles Connaught Rangers. The bombardment commenced at 4 p.m. 28th & at one o’clock in the morning of the 29th the A L H carried the breach on the top. The fighting throughout was almost entirely hand to hand & of a very severe nature. The shrapnel fire & machine guns of the Turks was terrific. Casualties about 1000 – Turkish losses 5000, with 300 rifles, 60000 rounds of ammunition & 500 bombs.

By this success 400 more acres of Turkish Territory was added to the Country occupied by Anzac.

Turkish Ruse: instantaneous bombs – when picked up by our own men & fuses lit, they instantly explode.

Sent Mab a letter.

Sunday 5th Sept. 1915

Am not feeling my real self. A lackadaisical feeling percolates me from head to foot, my head is very hot & has a dull pain. Towards evening I felt better but had a restless night. I have received no mail except first 3 letters from Mum Dad & Mabel (1 each). It is very disheartening despite all the more so when I have been so attentive to my mail to home.

I have a very great repulsion to going sick as I have great hopes with regard to my present position.

Monday 6th Sept. 1915

Rose at 6.30 & felt a little better but as the day progressed, my temperature gained & I had dull aches & pains all over. I have not mentioned my condition yet & will struggle against it to the utmost.


[Page 50]

[Page of shorthand not transcribed.]


[Page 51]

Tuesday 7th Sept. 1915

Am feeling better, much to my relief.

Arthur Gray called on me with Red Cross Sergt. Had a chat about home & the war. He had received no letters beyond a couple from Clara. Gave him 6 pkts cigs, 2 tins bloater, 2 lemonade powders, 1 pkt tobacco, as he had been short. I was glad of his call; it is indeed refreshing to come into contact with one so closely connected with home. I live a pretty solitary life here – no pals, no one to chat with as they are mostly N.Z’s & complete strangers to me. Beyond a good day salute & the usual formal talk connected with my work with those around me, I have little distraction. It’s a long day – I am awake at 6.30 & go on duty not later than 8 am. 9.30 pm is my average hour of knocking off & there is nothing to do but to creep into one’s dug-out & try to sleep. My active brain does not give me much peaceful sleep however. Each night I am visited with grotesque dreams of vivid variety but little coherence & in the morning I awake with a thick head & no remembrance of the fantasies of the night.

8 pm – Seem to have entirely recovered from yesterday’s sickness. Hope recovery is permanent.

[Paragraph of shorthand not transcribed.]

Wednesday 8th Sept. 1915

Decided to walk to Walkers Ridge as I heard mail had arrived. Set out 2 pm & on arrival was rewarded for my trouble in receiving 2 letters from Mab, 1 Mum & 1 from Gran. No letters from Grace, Dad or C.M.

Mab’s letters dated 18th & 26 July Grace’s 19th Mum 23rd July

Mab says in her first letters she has been expecting another letter from me every day. She does not realise I was on the water right up to the 26th July when on


[Page 52]

which date we arrived at Suez. The letters which I had written aboard were supposed to go off then, but as a matter of fact they were taken on to Egypt & did not leave till about the end of July. Mab would also have to wait the 4 or 5 weeks it would take for the letters to reach home.

Arthur called in again on me at 6.30 on his way to Quinns Post. He was surprised He was very anxious as to whether I had received any mail & when I answered in the affirmative he looked pretty glum because he had not received any & he was hoping that something had gone amiss. I cheered him up however & told him a lot of my mail had not arrived. I also gave him some more cigarettes. He promised to call in again when he was passing.

Thursday 9th Sept. 1915

[Paragraph of shorthand not transcribed.]

Friday 10th Sept. 1915

[Paragraph of shorthand not transcribed.]

Saturday 11th July [Sept.] 1915

Nothing eventful. Sent Grace a long letter.

Sunday 12th July [Sept] 1915

Attended Church 9.30 am Have just read the stirring account


[Page 53]

in S.M.H. of 19th July of the welcome home given the first of our wounded & sick. The following grandiloquent paragraph was The following paragraph gives us an idea of the grandiloquence of the account – "And they have come back, these men who have trodden the path of glory, back from an unfamiliar alien soil to their own familiar homes, to be remembered & cared for by the land that sent them forth." Are the sentiments expressed in these lines to be repeated or in the are they only the vapid mouthings of a pseudo patriotic tartuffe who is inspired for the moment but will lack inspiration as the return of wounded becomes commonplace & the need for recruits is not so pressing becomes less urgent owing to Germany’s slow retrogression down the path of defeat. Will the heroes who have lived & suffered through long months of campaign & who see the war through have the a similar newspaper effusion on their return. If they don’t, this article will be the damn the people & press of Sydney for ever.

Monday 13 Sept. 1915

According to French official reports the No. of German officers killed, wounded and missing from the beginning of the war to June 1st 1915 was 43992. These losses which increased to 52041 by July 5 show an increase of 9069 in 45 days or 360 officers per day.

Tuesday 14th Sept. 1915

Nothing eventful.

Wednesday 15th Sept. 1915

Same monotonous routine. No life, nothing – everything quiet.

Thursday 16th Sept. 1915

The position has now been unchanged for days. We need strong reinforcements to settle this question. This desultory fighting is no good. The Turks are improving their position day by day & will soon again be in an impregnable position. After all we are only along the sea shore so to speak, whilst they hold the commanding positions. We must have greater numbers before any forward movement can be attempted. The old hands here all require a rest & are utterly wearied & complaining among themselves – this is bad for morale.

The Authorities recognise this and have sent away this week the New Zealand Mounted Rifle Brigade, the New Zealand Infantry Bridge and others to Mudros for a month’s spell. The 7th Australian Inf. Bde. has taken their place here.


[Page 54]

This Brigade is formed of Queenslanders and Tasmanians.

"Let me get back cried one of the only New Zealanders at Headquarters today, and they can have all the credit in my pay-book".

"I don’t care which way the damn show goes", says another, "as long as there is a finish to it somehow or other. I do not care who goes out Tommie, Turk or Australian".

Turks being captured all carry 2 or 3 bombs each. They evidently place a great deal of importance in this kind of warfare & they make it one of the features of their trench fighting.

The Turks are fighting clean & honourably & it is evident from reports that they are soldiers of the highest discipline & experience. They are well fed, but ill clothed.

We have had early morning showers during the last 2 or 3 days, & winter is fast approaching. Sickness, from colds to enteric, is very prevalent & great numbers are evacuated daily to the hospital ships.

I have no doubt there are many malingerers, but these are mostly found amongst the convalescents in hospital.

Heard Jack Armstrong was in 7th Bde Fld Amb. Sent him a note to call on me.

Friday 17th Sept. 1915

Spencer has (Capt. Hastings Clerk) has gone sick. Castles is ill. Col. Braithwaite also.

Saturday 18th Sept. 1915

Castles absent from office. A heavy day for me. Col. Braithwaite goes to hospital ship tomorrow.

Sent Service P.Cds to Mum, Mab, & Gran.

This afternoon the Turks made a brilliant demonstration all along the Army Corps front. No attack however. Heavy shell firing direction of Suvla & for an hour the roar of guns & incessant rifle fire was rent the atmosphere. At 6.30 pm everything was quiet again.

I have noticed lately the Turkish superiority at concealment, & this is a standing reproof to the discipline of our own army. The Turks are very seldom seen & carry on their extensive, defensive operations with wonderful celerity & quietness.

They are up to all the ruses under the sun. Dancing towards our lines, approaching front trenches with hands raised above their heads & then suddenly collecting together & rushing trenches, dressing in our uniforms, etc.

Bomb ruses also, instantaneous fuses, etc.

Aeroplane reconnaissance is a feature of day’s operations on both sides for locating guns, number of


[Page 55]

enemy etc. These observations are generally carried out either early morning or late afternoon. A report reached us this morning that Gen. Ian Hamilton & staff whose H.Qs. are at Imbros was bombed considerably by 3 Taubes. Ian had narrow escape from one bomb. I have noticed these Taubes lately. They have become very cheeky, fly low down, & they must know we are deficient in anti aircraft guns.

Sunday 19th Sept. 1915

Castles absent from office. Col. Braithwaite goes off by "Metero". J. Armstrong called during afternoon, & we had a chat about old times. Tells me that Martin has joined. I gave him tobacco & matches.

A Turkish deserter, Ismail Mahomet Ali, 5th Co. 2 Bn. 24th Reg. was brought in today. He appeared to be in good health but complained of sore feet. He was only wearing thin shoes. He was dressed in a khaki cloth jacket & trousers with a soft cap. He I would say he was a middle aged man. Examined, he said he came from a vilayet of Sym Smyrna, but that he was fed up with fighting, like a lot more of the Turks in his Co. He said the Turks had heaps of food & water, brought up by mules & then into the trenches by fatigue parties. He had only seen one German officer during his month’s active service.

A great deal of sickness – dysentery, influenza, fever etc.

Gen Godley goes to Mudros two or three days inspection of troops.

Sgt Worth goes ill.

Monday 20th Sept. 1915

Issued with two flannel shirts, 1 pr underpants, 2 prs socks, waterproof, very welcome.

London, Sept. 16th 1915 – Mr. Tennant stated in the House of Commons that the total British losses casualties for the 1st year was were – Officers killed 4765, wounded 9933, missing 1500: Men killed 70,992, wounded 241086, missing 23466 (vide Peninsula Press, 20th Sept.)

Tuesday 21st Sept. 1915

Posted Mab a letter (before I received hers).

Moving day - walked to Major Pinwill returns from Mudros where he has been for a couple of days. He takes over a new B. Walked to Russells Top & received 3 letters – one each from Mab & Dad dated 1/8/15, & one from Grace dated 18/7/15. How pleased I am, but have my little darling Mab has had the measles. She is getting well however. Moving day, as I said, Castles is ill


[Page 56]

& everything is upside down.

Our premises have not been built, & we have to turn to ourselves & do it. It is a job & I am fed up with it.

I slept in my old dug-out which I am loth to leave.

Wednesday 22 Sept. 1915

Worked on our new offices in Otago Gully. Major P. in a bad humour like a bear with a sore head. Castles is ill and unable to work. Nothing doing much. It is a cold day. During the evening I worked on bivouac but I am sure it will provide little shelter against the rain. I reminded Major P. about this but he simply grunted.

I am afraid that there is little chance of my getting promotion as I expected. I am sorry over it as I have written home such good letters of my expectations. Talking tonight to the Corporals of the Army Medical Corps, an Australian (Perth) who says there is very little chance of an Australian getting promotion here. General Godley likes the New Zealanders. They get the preference before Australians and are particular not to purposely shove an Australian out. It is a fact but a remarkable one too, that there is only one Australian on the general staff, and he is A.D.C. to General Godley and a mere figurehead. He also is a very good fellow without any push or go, should anyone approach him about promotion. Capt. Ryrie I mean. He is a methodical Adjutant, that is all. The New Zealanders command the general staff and run the show yet there is hardly a New Zealander in the Division at present except at Headquarters. There is 1 + 3 ASH, 7th AIB (relieving those few at Mudros), 4 AIR (at Mudros), and 29th Bde who are "Tommies".

I sleep again in old bivouac tonight.

Discipline: (vide Gen. Routine Orders issued from General Headquarters, Mediterranean Expeditionary Force 21st Sept 1915) – No 19912 Private Cogan, 6th Bn, Royal Inniskilling Fusiliers & No l5/17911 Private J. Smith, 5th Bn Royal Irish Fusiliers, having been convicted by Field General Court Martial of the offence of sleeping on their posts are sentenced to 10 years penal servitude. The Commander in Chief has confirmed the proceedings and directed that the sentences shall be undergone forthwith.

Thursday 23 Sept. 1915

A busy day with new bivouac – had 2 men detailed to dig it out but they did not finish it. Slept badly owing to extreme cold.

Castles went off on hospital ship.

Gen. Godley returns from Mudros accompanied by Lord Charles Bentinck & Capt Herbert. Talking about live Lords etc., I have only seen The Marquis of Anglesey who is the ADC to Gen Birdwood. He gets about in navy-blue putties.

Lord Charles’ Brother, Lord Henry, called during the afternoon & he scribbled a note to his brother. He is not my idea of a real live Lord – in fact I first took him, when I looked at his lapels and saw a military rank, that it was some lost scraggy Tommy come to ask his way.


[Page 57]

Friday 24th Sept. 1915

Am [indecipherable] freezing - & late for office – half-an-hour, of wh I was quietly reminded. Am greatly worried about bivouac as weather is too cold for open-air sleeping, besides my "internal prerogative" is demanding additional warmth & rest.

Paid £1 in 2 ten shilling currency notes. It was absolutely necessary for me to draw as I had to get my hair cut & razor done up.

We have now taken up our winter quarters in Otago Gully, a narrow-gutted hollow forming an admirable cul-de-sac for enfilade fire from the north. The camp, bivouac with its excellently built offices & adjacent sleeping quarters is a tribute to the skill & zeal of the men who composed the working party, but I am afraid too much attention has been paid to detail. The result is that a very elaborate target now presents itself to the enemy – the brow of the gully is crested with dugouts whilst the "eyebrows", viz., the western slops is adorned with the multitudinous square-built premises giving accommodation for the General Staff. The whole show is one huge yellow-sandbag patch & must afford an easy target for hostile aircraft. Aeroplane reconnaissance is such a feature of Turkish warfare, it is surprising to me that such a great flamboyancy would have been was not prohibited. Only yesterday, recognising the need urgent need of dealing or doing something with enemy aircraft, each Bde. Division has been detailed by the Army Corps Commander to allot (2) special machine guns on prominent points to watch for the Taubes. They have become very cheeky of late & fly quite low. We evidently have no anti-aircraft guns to catch them.

The present stagnation is depressing in its regular monotony. From all centres comes the never-changing report "situation quiet". Those in the front trenches do certainly have to keep on the "qui vive" for bombs & snipers, but otherwise it seems to be a question of who can last the longest. Both sides seem to be content to dig themselves in, & watch & wait for events. It seems to be a mutual arrangement. The Turks are busy improving their works & are stubbornly entrenching themselves.

This inactive life is bad for morale. A soldier to be a soldier needs to be incessantly on the move, fighting the common enemy, or if not fighting him, continually aware that he is not for a moment safe from him. In this struggle, the singing of bullets & the bursting & roaring of shrapnel & big guns should never be lost to the men – if the enemy wont display no desire to fight then they should be made to fight.


[Page 58]

The men should be kept at it as long as with due respect of course to their physical nourishment in the way of food & rest - & not allowed to "linger by the wayside" for a month or two in comparative idleness. By it, they lose the sound of battle they become acquire as it were a growing sense of security & become perhaps so when the pinch comes "to go in & win out" their nerves won’t stand the strain, the transition has become been too severe, too sudden & they have therefore lost their former sting.

6 months here is sufficient for any man – even if he be the purest physical specimen one could clap his eyes on. It is simply a question of luck whether you go down ill or not. It is certainly not a question of physical endurance – the rough life, the unchanging diet, contagion from flies, etc. spells danger throughout at any time of the day.

At present I sincerely believe we are evacuating 200 per cent more sick than wounded every day.

Sent 2 Service Cards out each to Dad, Mabel, Grace.

Saturday 25th Sept. 1915

Had a fair night – fleas however were pretty lively – bivouac will be completed today I hope. Capt Ryrie is doing his best in this direction.
A clever piece of work on the enemy’s part is reported from Lone Pine – "At one part of our line several periscopes and periscopic rifles were hit. On close inspection of the ground a sack was noticed halfway between the enemy’s trenches and our own. This sack was seen to move and finally 2 sacks with men inside were made out. The sacks were fired on and the trouble ceased.

Extract from English Bulletin – 24/9/15 – Gen. mobilisation has been ordered in Bulgaria. "This does not necessarily imply that Bulgaria has taken the decisive step to liaise with the neutral powers which has been the ultimate object of German diplomacy. Negotiations have been good for some time now with a view to satisfying the legitimate aspirations of Bulgaria and one [indecipherable] Government has planned an attack whereby in conjunction with an Austro-German offensive or one mobilisation is only intended to produce stronger opposition though the purpose of negotiation is still doubtful."

The Bulgarian mobilisation is explained by the Bulgarian Minister in London as the beginning of an armed neutrality. The news of the mobilization has caused a great excitement in Athens where a meeting of the Greek Cabinet was summoned by the Premier. (War Office Telegram 24/9/15.)

Berlin admits Russian successes at 3 parts on Sept 25. The critical stage in the Russian retreat from Vilna is over. (War Office telegram 26/9/15)

Eiffel Tower reports 26/9/15 – (inter alia) – On the Belgian coast the French batteries have cooperated with the British fleet in bombarding the German position at Wepende & Middlekerke. In Champagne after a fresh & very violent bombardment of the trenches


[Page 59]

blockbuster, & batteries of the enemy, the French Infantry carried out an assault almost against the German line between the Suippe & the Aisne. The enemy’s first line was occupied almost along the entire line of attack. The French advance continues.

These fragmentary tidings of good news are very welcome & distributed amongst the troops are greatly appreciated.

We receive daily war office telegrams printed in excellent style on super fine paper, whilst a sheet called the Peninsular Press also comes along at regular intervals giving us news of the progress of European events.

This interesting printed matter is turned out by the R.E. staff at Imbros.

Sunday 26th Sept. 1915

My bivouac dug out is finished & is an excellent type of the sandbag shelter used on the peninsula. I am beginning to find work very more congenial though the days drag somewhat at times. In fact the same dull routine is repeated each day & the country has acquired an air of quietness relieved only now & again by the shriek of shrapnel in the distance an occasional retaliation round from shrapnel rifles which are the only indication that we are actually at war.

There are two things worth living for in this world – love & war. The worst of it is that you cannot materially enjoy both at the same time. Experience has taught me the bitter truth of all this, when I talk of war or its attractiveness, I don’t refer to gay & happy regiments marching along to the accompaniment of brass bands or the soul stirring notes of the bugle & the medley of pipe & drum. I allude to the roar of thunder & clash of arms of the battlefield, of the silent secrecy of bayonet attacks under cover of darkness when cold steel finds a resting place in the quivering breasts of a thousand an one of our enemies to the shambles of death wh a bright morning reveals in some quiet verdant hollow where the bodies of our brave comrades & those of our enemy lie inextricably mixed to be loosed into a common grave "unhallowed & unsung". It may appear somewhat paradoxical that these things should be so loathsome & yet so attractive – the answer is simple yet irrefutable, the men go on & they love it all. The ethics of it I cannot explain. Considered from the true Christian standpoint war is bad. There is nothing in it compatible with biblical law. In battle the savage beast is uppermost & our desire is to slay. We are urged


[Page 60]

to kill & so legitimate murder goes on. On the other hand, considered in the practical light of these practical times, war is inevitable & right. And so long as the German & any other of his kinsmen are allowed to wallow in the mire of their own conceit that they can rend & subdue the nations of the earth by rapine, pillage & the murder of innocent souls so long will it be our duty to teach him them otherwise - & that can only be accomplished by means of cold steel & shell, & all the dread implements of modern war.

A redeeming feature about this love of war is that it creates a love of home & for dear friends so far away that one has hitherto unknown. It certainly teaches me to appreciate, if it has not done so before, the comfort & serenity of home life, & is an excellent appetizer for the good things that his safe return will bring. It will be like entering the gates of Paradise after a long sojourn in Hell.

I often sit and think of the things that have been, the things that are & well – the chances of the big gamble of life & death ahead. Daily association with modern war is a strict censor of a man’s soul & brings the best out in him, if he be willing.

This stupendous task in Gallipoli is a nerve trier unparalleled in the history of warfare. Isolated from all civilization, living in holes like rabbits in their burrows, with none of the comforts of the "billeted" soldier in France or his opportunity for relaxation, & not a moment of the day secure from the enemy’s aggressiveness, we live in hope – there is no backsliding. Sickness is rife & danger is on every hand, but the morale of the men is unshaken. Victory is ahead & it is their sole objective.

We received a "peppering" of shrapnel at teatime. It knocked out the wireless & killed one poor chap instantaneously, not a dozen yds. away from where I stood.


[Page 61]

Monday 27th Sept. 1915

Sent a long letter to Mab. ack hers of 1st Aug. Sent Field Card to Gran.

Eiffel Tower report 27th Sept. (inter alia) The French attack north of Arras has made further progress. They have taken by assault the whole village of Souchez and are victorious in the east in the direction of Givenchy & further to the south they have reached La Folie. In Champagne the French have continued to gain ground and after having crossed almost along the whole front of the powerful system of trenches & works constructed & strengthened by the enemy during many months, have advanced the towards the north compelling the Germans to fall back on their second line of trenches 3 or 4 kilos in the rear. The Germans have suffered very heavy losses, and have left behind in the abandoned works a considerable quantity of material which has not yet been estimated, but already the capture of 24 field guns is reported.

The number of prisoners taken increased momentarily & is already 16000 unwounded, of whom at least 200 are officers, & along the whole front during 2 days fighting the allies have captured over 20000 prisoners.

War Office telegram 27/9/15 (inter alia). The British attacked the enemy south of La Bassee Canal & captured his trenches on a front of 5 miles, penetrating his lines in some places to a distance of 4000 yds.

The situation in the eastern front is much more hopeful. The Russians have been able to escape the Germans in the north & to counter attack with energy. They have retaken Vilecken & the captured 7 machine guns wh they turned on the fleeing enemy. Further south the Germans were almost also beaten & Loquichine was reoccupied by the Russians. The most successful of the Russian attacks took place in the Lutzk region. Here the Russians carried an enemy position & took 80 officers & 4000 rank & file prisoners, & much war booty. Another 1000 prisoners were taken on the Stry.

All this good news sent me whistling about the office but I was promptly hauled up by the Major, who said, "Stop that Rhodes, it disturbs the equanimity of the office". And I was not surprised, for I was never whistling was never my forte.


[Page 62]

[This date on top of Page 63]
Tuesday 28th Sept. 1915

Sent Dad & Grace a letter each ack. theirs of 1st & 18th July.

Tuesday Wednesday 29th Sept. 1915

Nothing of movement – there is good news from France where the French are attacking the 3rd line of German trenches. Aeroplane reconnaissance on the part of the enemy is now a daily occurrence. Machine guns under special officers have been told off to watch & wait for these aerial spies.

Wednesday Thursday 30th Sept. 1915

Ordered some Turkish Delight per favour of our Greek interpreter who is visiting Imbros. I wish I could send some home to Mab & the youngsters.

Re Aeroplanes - The Turks show a black Maltese Cross on the planes – the Allies varied-colored circles – some red some white etc.

[Paragraph of shorthand crossed through.]


[Page 63]

[The following two sentences can be found on Page 67]
From the Pen. Press 28/9/15 "Official news".

The following leading article appeared in the "Times" of September 4th:-

HEROISM IN GALLIPOLI

We may all have our opinion about the strategy that dictated the enterprise in the Dardanelles. But about the behaviour of the men who have been sent to carry it through there can be only one opinion. Mr. Ashmead Bartlett sent us yesterday, and sends us again to-day, an account of attacks by these men – many of them thus tasting battle for the first time – against the Turkish positions round Suvla Bay and in the "Anzac" zone. These accounts should serve to make the least imaginative realize the conditions that an army in Gallipoli has to face. The Turks are well entrenched, well supplied with machine guns, well served by an artillery that has proved itself a worthy rival to ours. Our ships, and the batteries that we have been able to land, do their best to make the Turkish trenches untenable. They plaster them with shells, spread a screen of fire before each advance, and lift – as the line goes forward – to make the bringing up of enemy reserves difficult and costly. But the hills of Gallipoli – rising in tiers from the coast, broken by rocky ravines, clothed in stubborn scrub – are ideal for defence. They are held by men who have an old name for dogged bravery in defence – men who fight now with the knowledge that failure means the loss of Constantinople, expulsion from Europe, disgrace to the Crescent. Mr. Ashmead Bartlett has shown what the results are, and we, who have never failed to honour a worthy foe, may give the Turk the praise that is his due. But if we praise him, what shall we say of our own men? Seldom have British soldiers been called upon – with so complete a knowledge of the difficulties confronting them – to face emergencies calling for such sustained endeavour, endurance so long drawn out, faith so unconquerable in the certainty of ultimate victory. Landed on bare beaches under a storm of fire, knowing nothing of the country over which they have to advance, they have gone forward again and again with a stern bravery that has yielded ground only when it was so swept by fire that no living thing could remain. Several times they have actually carried commanding positions, only to be forced to give them up by a hail of destruction that made of stubbornness but a useless sacrifice of life. We speak of them all – Australians, New Zealanders, Indians – as our men. These are ours as much as those who have gone out from among us – as conscious of the call of the race, as proud of our traditions, as resolute to maintain the honour of their country. When we think how all have risen to the height of so arduous an enterprise we find no words that can express our pride in them. Feret ad astra virtus.

Wireless Messages
Athens, September 26.

Greece has mobilised twenty classes. The King signed the mobilisation decree. Great enthusiasm prevails. The Chamber meets on Wednesday to proclaim martial law. The Government has ordered the requisitioning of steamers and railways and prohibited the transport of goods.


[Page 64]

Russell Top 29/8/15 – Dear Arthur, I am glad of the opportunity to drop you this note of all good wishes by your friend of the 19th.

[Remainder of page of shorthand crossed through.]


[Page 65]

[Paragraph of shorthand crossed through.]

Friday 1st Oct. 1915

Posted characteristic letter to "Mrs." (employers mother)

[Paragraph of shorthand crossed through.


[Page 66]

[Paragraph of shorthand crossed through.}

Saturday 2nd Oct. 1915

Warm weather has prevailed during the last 3 or 4 days, with heavy fogs early morning. Flies are terrific. The evenings are pleasant, calm & quiet, with an unchanging canopy of stars in a violent violet sky.

Warmly congratulated today by [indecipherable] Captain Richmond on my ability as a typist and he said my work was like the skill of an extra [indecipherable]. Rare compliments indeed.

Major Pinwill’s trip to [indecipherable] has been postponed: he leaves tomorrow however.

Major [indecipherable] is off again on Monday on some special "stunt", I believe to Helles.

The Turks have been very active during the last 3 or 4 days with their artillery and their anti aircraft guns especially have caused our machines some anxiety.

The Turks are indefatigable workers: whether they are driven to it at the point of the revolver I do not know: but it is a fact that they can convert a barren position in a night into a nest of trenches and covers. My belief is that they have special "digging" Bns.

Their snipers too are remarkable: they are in every conceivable nook and cranny and it is difficult at times to realise how they live in such positions as they are found. They are a harassing factor in the operations of our fatigue parties by day and night.

Sunday 3rd Oct. 1915

Wrote Mab. letter.

Major Pinwill goes to [indecipherable].

Monday 4th Oct. 1915

Received letters from Mab. (11 Aug.) Grace (7th & 19th Aug.) Gran (18th Aug.). Welcome news. General Godley goes to Mudros to inspect the troops. The Turks broke the ice this morning with a demonstration on Apex about 9 o’clock. Fairly heavy rifle and machine gun fire whilst a few shells burst over our lines. It lasted for about ½ hour. Our fellows report that they did not see a Turk who kept behind their trenches.

Sent Field Service Cards in ack. of above letters.


[Page 67]

Tuesday 5th Oct. 1915

Ack. Mab’s letter of 11th Aug. & Grace’s letters of 7th & 19th.

Had a call from Arthur to show me a letter he had received from Mai dated 24th Aug. "They were thought it strange" she said "that they had not received a letter from me." So I fully explained in letters to Grace & Mab of today, the possibilities of my letters in Egypt not being posted till 3 or 4 mails after Arthurs. I did not arrive at Suez till 2 or 3 days after he, & whereas his letters were sent off at Suez ours were taken on to Egypt & did not get off till several days after. Arthur’s Bn is at Pope’s Post – the other side of Walkers Ridge. He expects to be made a Reg S.M. soon.

We had lunch together & he left me promising to mention the above circumstances regarding my mail in his first letter. I gave him quantity of writing material, cigarettes & a tin of sherbet.

Press telegram dated 5/10/15 states that Sir John French says the definite stage of the [This sentence continued on Page 71.]


[Page 68]

[The sentence below can be found at the side of Page 67]
Pen Press issued by R.E. Printing Section, G.H.Q., M.E.F.

Wireless Messages

More than 23,000 German prisoners have been taken on the Western front since September 25. The French have captured in Artois and Champagne alone 121 heavy and field guns, while Sir John French reports the capture of 21 guns with many more abandoned between us and the enemy, as well as 40 machine guns, in addition to many destroyed by the bombardment.

A telegram despatched from Sofia on Sept. 23rd says that it is officially announced that Bulgaria, in ordering the mobilisation of her forces, has no aggressive intentions but is resolved to be fully armed to defend her rights and her independence, thus following the example of Holland and Switzerland at the beginning of the war. In view of the movement of troops by her neighbours and the Austro-German offensive against Serbia, Bulgaria is obliged to proclaim an armed neutrality while she continues her pourparlers with the two belligerent groups.

A telegram from Athens on September 26th, states that at an interview between King Constantine and M. Venizelos, the Prime Minister, complete agreement was reached as to the measures to be taken for dealing with the situation and as to Greece’s duty and obligations.

M. Venizelos has since (Oct. 2) announced the decision of Greece to stand by Serbia if she is attacked by Bulgaria.

Sir Edward Grey, speaking in the House of Commons on Sept. 29th, said: "It is officially announced in Sofia that Bulgaria has no aggressive intentions whatever against her neighbours."


[Page 69]

SPECIAL ORDER
by
GENERAL SIR IAN HAMILTON, G.C.B., D.S.O., A.D.C.,
Commander-in-Chief, Mediterranean Expeditionary Force.

GENERAL HEADQUARTERS,
Mediterranean Expeditionary Force,
7th September, 1915.

The Commander-in-Chief, Mediterranean Expeditionary Force, desires formally to record the fine feat of arms achieved by the troops under the command of Lieutenant-General Sir W.R. Birdwood during the battle of Sari Bair.

The fervent desire of all ranks to close with the enemy, the impetuosity of their onset and the steadfast valour with which they maintained the long struggle, these will surely make appeal to their fellow-countrymen all over the world.

The gallant capture of the almost impregnable Lone Pine trenches by the Australian Division, and the equally gallant defence of the position against repeated counter-attacks are exploits which will live in history. The determined assaults carried out from other parts of the Australian Division’s line were also of inestimable service to the whole force, preventing as they did the movement of large bodies of reinforcements to the northern flank.

The troops under the command of Major-General Sir A.J. Godley, and particularly the New Zealand and Australian Division, were called upon to carry out one of the most difficult military operations that has ever been attempted – a night march and assault by several columns in intricate mountainous country, strongly entrenched, and held by a numerous and determined enemy. Their brilliant conduct during this operation and the success they achieved have won for them a reputation as soldiers of whom any country must be proud.

To the Australian and New Zealand Army Corps, therefore, and to those who were associated with that famous Corps in the battle of Sari Bair – the Maoris, Sikhs, Gurkhas, and the new troops of the 10th and 13th Divisions from the old Country – Sir Ian Hamilton tenders his appreciation of their efforts, his admiration of their gallantry, and his thanks for their achievements. It is an honour to command a force which numbers such men as these in its ranks, and it is the Commander-in-Chief’s high privilege to acknowledge that honour.

W.P. BRAITHWAITE,
Major-General,
Chief of the General Staff.
Mediterranean Expeditionary Force.


[Page 70]

Extract from "Morning Post" Aug. 27 1915

But while the new offensive has not achieved the complete success hoped for, the advantage gained by the increased scope for action offered by the extension of the front must not be overlooked. As the Press Bureau statement issued on Wednesday tersely observed, the ground gained and held is of great value. Nor must the warning contained in the succeeding sentence of the statement be disregarded, that further serious and costly efforts will be needed to secure decisive victory. The Turks, with the help of their German organisers, have developed forces greater than appear to have been anticipated. History is repeating itself in the Dardanelles and driving home the lessons of all our former wars. The General in command has done what he could with the forces at his disposal. His troops have acted up to the finest traditions of the Army. It remains for the nation to provide the means needed, here and elsewhere, to achieve success.


[Page 71]

great battle is now reached. Our allies in the south have pierced enemy’s last line. The French Army Corps secured an important position in the Vitz ridge. British operations most successful. We have taken over 3000 prisoners & 25 guns. Men feel the utmost confidence in the final – a complete victory.

Petrograd communiqué records further Russian successes repulsing German attacks & causing enemy to flee in disorder, causing panic & capturing trenches & villages with brilliant bayonet attacks. Most of the fighting is in the region east of Domsk & Vilna line.

Petrograd No. 4 message states that Russia has sent ultimatum to Bulgaria giving her 24 hrs to dismiss Turko-German Officers.

The huge liner "Olympic" with 7000 yeomanry on board has been chased into Mudros by 2 submarines.

Rumour has it that two troopships en route Alexandria to Mudros have been sunk by submarines during the last week. No official confirmation here.

Returned soldiers from Mudros tell me that Mudros is packed "bum full" with troops & troopships.

Well informed circles here state that a big move was contemplated about the middle of this month wh would end the whole business – political intrigue was at work to finish it. But something or other intervened & this master stroke is not to come off now till the middle of November.

There has certainly been a great secret movement of troops in these waters lately. The continual rumours of it, coming from so many various sources, must have some foundation. Some say that there are 10,000 Italians [indecipherable] away but handy


[Page 72]

Extract from "Morning Post" Aug. 27 1915. This is the situation today 21 Sept. 1915

THE MILITARY SITUATION.
DARDANELLES OPERATIONS.
THE RUSSIAN FRONT.

(From our Military Correspondent.)

The new landing in the Gallipoli Peninsula, of which authentic information is now available, is an example of how the best laid schemes in war, as in other kinds of human activity, are apt to fall short of achieving complete success. As on the occasion of the original landing on April 25, all the arrangements for seizing the landing-places and disembarking the troops appear to have been thought out to the minutest detail for which foresight could provide, and the experience previously gained was fully utilized. Absolute secrecy, one of the primary essentials in every operation of war, was maintained up to the last moment, even the troops employed being kept in ignorance of their destination until just about to disembark. The landing was effected during "the darkest hours that precede the dawn," and the enemy were completely taken by surprise. Although the Turks knew of the arrival of large reinforcements, and were therefore aware that operations of some kind were projected, they had no clue as to when or where the attack would take place. The troops having been carefully exercised in embarking and disembarking, it was possible to effect both operations in darkness with the least possible risk of confusion and delay. Fresh troops were employed, and all ranks were eager to be in action. The landing was effected without a hitch and with little opposition. The attention of the enemy had been diverted by an attack towards Krithia from the Allies’ main position at the extremity of the Peninsula, and the attack of the Australians and New Zealanders, which was


[Page 73]

designed to gain ground to the north and join hands with the new offensive, coincided with the arrival of the transports and the disembarkation at Suvla Bay. The new divisions, supported by the fire of the ships, quickly advanced towards the high ground which encircles the bay on the north, east, and south; and there appears to have been no delay in landing and sending forward reinforcements.

THE HITCH.

Thus all the preliminary arrangements went like clock-work, and everything seems to have been in favour of complete success. The Australasian Corps, after desperate fighting, gained the commanding ridges of Sari Bahr and Chunuk Bahr, and it only remained for the advance from Suvla Bay to gain the heights of Anafarta, east and southeast of the Salt Lake, in order to dominate the entire region. At this stage, for some reason not yet fully explained, a hitch occurred in the proceedings. The advance of the newly-landed force was held up in the low ground east of the Salt Lake, and on the 7th and the following day was unable to make any further material progress towards the main position on the Anafarta ridge, which had meanwhile been strongly occupied by the Turks. In consequence the Australians and New Zealanders were obliged to withdraw from the advanced positions they had gained on the ridges to a line in rear of the crest, where they established themselves firmly. The renewed attack, which was made on the 21st with the aid of reinforcements which had become available in the meantime, was unable to make material progress except on the left of the Australasian line, where a strong position was established about three-quarters of a mile in advance of the original front. The net result of the operations thus far has been that the position gained above Gaba Tepe at the end of April has been extended northwards as far as the shore of the Gulf of Saros beyond Suvla Bay, the total length of the front exceeding twelve miles, while the Turks continue to hold the dominating ridges which command the country towards the open sea on the west and the Dardanelles on the east. But while the new offensive has not achieved the complete success hoped for, the advantage gained by the increased scope for action offered by the


[Page 74]

extension of the front must not be overlooked. As the Press Bureau statement issued on Wednesday tersely observed, the ground gained and held is of great value. Nor must the warning contained in the succeeding sentence of the statement be disregarded, that further serious and costly efforts will be needed to secure decisive victory. The Turks, with the help of their German organisers, have developed forces greater than appear to have been anticipated. History is repeating itself in the Dardanelles and driving home the lessons of all our former wars. The General in command has done what he could with the forces at his disposal. His troops have acted up to the finest traditions of the Army. It remains for the nation to provide the means needed, here and elsewhere, to achieve success.


[Page 75]

& ready for the word to move. Greece has mobilised & already fighting has taken place on her frontier with the Bulgars. The enthusiastic frenzy of the Greeks in these islands to crowd to the standard of battle against Bulgars borders on madness. They have left their homes, sold their businesses and farms for 25% of their worth & cleared off to join within 24 hrs. of the word to mobilize.

Wednesday 6th Oct. 1915

Visit from Gen. de Lisle of 29th Div. stationed up Lala Baba way.

Big naval bombardment of Hills running north from Suvla along coast. Very spectacular – ships from Suvla apparently firing broadsides. Great flashes of vivid flame broke on the hillside as the shells found their mark & huge clouds of dust & debris sent skywards as if resembling volumes of smoke from burning oil wells. The bombardment lasted about ½ hr. The song of the big shells as they whizzed on their mission of destruction could be distinctly heard from where I stood. It was strikingly akin to the roar of an electric tram coming full speed down hill – in fact I was reminded of the noise of the William St car as it leaves the top of Darlinghurst for the City.

Thursday 7th Oct. 1915

War Office telegram 7/10/17 (inter alia): "Owing to various obstacles the ultimatum of Russia to Bulgaria was not delivered until Monday afternoon. In Petrograd a satisfactory reply is not expected & it is believed there that the Ministers of the Allies would leave Sofia last night."

German communique admits that the Russian armies have taken the


[Page 76]

offensive on a wide front almost fifty miles in extent from Postawy to Smorgon, on the Vilna-Minsk railway.

The Russians now appear to be giving the Germans a little of what they gave Napoleon’s Army in its great retreat from Moscow. In many respects the recent advance of the Germans into Russia & their new equable retreat is a striking parallel to the fate of Napoleon’s great invasion (See John Bull article).

I have it from a reliable source that 2 Divisions of French & 1 Greek Division are in local waters, north of Suvla, waiting the decision of Bulgaria.

Gen. Godley returns from Mudros.

Friday Oct. 8 1915

Wrote Mum letter – characteristic re cook etc.

Gen. Godley visited by Sir Ian Hamilton & Gen. Birdwood. Godley with his characteristic blandness met them ½ way down the track and halted each briefly and shook hands.

A Telegram from Petrograd announces that diplomatic relations between Russia & Bulgaria have been broken off.

There are eruptions in the Greek Cabinet. Owing to a difference of opinion with the Crown, Venizelos resigned office on Tuesday night. The King who accepted the resignation conferred with the leaders of the Political Parties yesterday morning & as a result of their deliberations it was decided to form a coalition Cabinet under the Presidency of Mr. Zaimis, the Governor of the National Bank, Mr. Venizelos being excluded. Mr. Zaimis is an experienced statesman, a former High Commissioner of Crete & a friend of the Quadruple Entente.

Rain has threatened all day – the sky has been overcast with filmy lead colored clouds & occasional drops of rain have fell. It seems determined to hang off. I have not seen an hour’s rain since I have been on the peninsula. Whether it’s the weather, diet, or long hours I cannot say, but my whole self is pregnated with a feeling of lassitude & weakness. I’ve had severe spasms of diarrhoea, especially in the early morning, & I have little sleep.

The work of the office severely drags on me, though I am


[Page 77]

entirely at ease regarding it. I have now grasped all details & carry on independently.

The situation is unchanged. The usual artillery retaliation rounds take place during the day & night, & outside the danger of snipers bullets & the noise of a night demonstration there is nothing to disturb the peaceful serenity of our surroundings. Peaceful! peaceful as far as the native will have it – indeed if one a stranger to the war suddenly happen here when early morn breaks forth in all its glorious radiance over land & sea, he would never credit if you told him that grim death lurked in every valley & on every hill.

Saturday 9th Oct 1915

Mirabile ductu.

It rained & blew hell last night – a most uncomfortable "preliminary counter" to what we are to experience in a few weeks.

As soon as twilight faded away into night, a dense storm wrack appeared enveloped us with whirlwind intensity as if to its sole mission was to tear the very vitals from our bivouac shelters. The black canopy of clouds, wh had lain dormant & high throughout the day, now descended upon the ear & plunged us into a inky darkness through wh one found it impossible even to grope. Rain poured in torrents as if the gates of Niagara had been let loose, & soon converted the dusty terraces & pathways into quagmires from which our boots could hardly be withdrawn. The wind howled & shrieked like so many aerial devils & many a primitive dug-out was mangled & torn to shreds.

I was in the office when the storm broke & I have a shall always retain a very vivid memory of my struggle in the inky blackness to reach my bivouac dug-out. The storm did not materially affect it however, though I spent an hour hanging on like grim death to the tarpaulin roof which was swelling ominously with each gust of wind. Early morn saw the disturbance spent of its fury.


[Page 78]

Sunday 10th Oct 1915

The glorious tenth – 28 years ago saw me in swaddling clothes. If I were given my life again would I live that life again?

An uneventful day – sent Field Service Cards to Mum, Grace & Mab to remind them I am well – and I know they will all be thinking of me.

Monday 11th Oct 1915

Experienced a rain storm about midday – quickly passed over but was very severe while it lasted. Captain Mair has arrived as GSO 3 vice Captain who has been here only a couple of days & has now gone to GHQ. Capt. Mair is just from France where he secured the Military Cross. A long lank attenuated Irishman, keen & full of life, & a gentleman every inch of him. Quite distinct to Capt. – who was for ever twisting an exceply. pretty little mo’ & took more pains with his toilet than interest in his work. He was also from France – but the vista of the life here did not suit his particular fancy. There was nothing here compatible with the conditions he had enjoyed in France. "Damn it all" he remarked "one does get tuned up with shell there, but you could get a drink occasionally & secure a comfortable bed. Why Divisional Hqrs. in France is about 11 miles back from the firing line, in an up-to-date spanking house & you have your motor cars, jolie demoiselles, etc." "And what the devil becomes of the mail here. In France we have it at least once a day, some times twice, oh dear me, this is the last place God made." And he walked to the door & gazed mournfully at the scene before him. Nothing but stunted gorse, & civilization nowhere.

Capt. Herbert has gone sick with dysentery. Ex consular service at Constantinople & a hero of Mons, the Hon. Aubrey Herbert MP was a characteristic figure while in camp. Tall & thin, with small head nestling to his shoulders with unbecoming severity, he appears to be in a state of perpetual effervescence. His face is never rigid, it is for ever crinkled with a smile & laughter & good fellowship His eyes are small dark & beady, & short-ranged, an aftermath of his trials in France – his sight has been practically destroyed by high explosives. So, poor fellow, they are continually getting him into trouble because his feet are naturally crosswise & two such physical defects must inevitably clash. But he displays wonderful agility for all that.

He dresses in a mauve-colored suit of high sartorial cut. He talks with the full flavor of British aristocratic ton - & is dreadfully careful of his hair, teeth & finger nails. His external effeminacy you would never associate with an hero of the battlefield. He is a living example of the hero of the modern melodramatic novel. He is always talking of the latest hair wash, pomades, & perfumes & you can always tell his whereabouts by the trail of violet that follows him. He indulges in Turkish delight & often makes of a meal of it in preference to roast beef & potatoes. He uses eau-de-cologne galore. A cheerful conversationalist, & spins many a good yarn. There is no excessive aristocrat about him, but his talk displays a ready wit & a brilliant brain. He is never bored or wearied & always gets what he wants. If he does not succeed at first he sticks at what he’s after till he gets it. A good trier & a bold soldier. "If you can’t get anything from someone you particularly desire, make love to them" is one of his witticisms & he has found it fairly successful by experience.


[Page 79]

Capt. Herbert has the reputation of being the finest I.O. on the Peninsula. Spoke to Maj. Pinwill re my rank. He represented the matter to Capt. Thomas, DACG. who said that I would be [indecipherable] for Corp. – that’s all he can do for the present, as the General won’t sanction Australians receiving rank of Sgt in this Division because the NZ Sgt gets less money. Rather illogical but as the Div. is as much Aust. as N.Z – in fact the whole thing is absurdly weak & would not stand investigation. Capt. Thomas says we will probably get a Sergeant rank later on: at any rate I am satisfied, for if I secure the Corporal rank it carries with it 10/- a day, & that is all I want. It is only another striking instance of the clash between New Zealanders and the Australians given they set out to run the Division with New Zealanders, and now find that they cannot do without the Australians, who slander them as much as possible and defer their progress. We do the work and do it better than the New Zealanders on their own show and we should get our rank and privileges. The whole business requires thorough investigation. It would then fall to the ground like a bag of grass.

A distinguishing feature of the night operations lately has been the work the Australian patrols – 7th B. (Col. Burston) – they have penetrated the enemy’s lines at night and actually sneaked in and out their trenches with wonderful daring and skill. They successfully reconnoitred the enemy’s position at the "Apex" and entered the blockhouse there. This work has been commended by General Godley, much I suppose to his disgust and the envy of the rest of the English general staff.

The cold callousness of those Australians to danger is typified by the following incident – a Turkish deserter – Suleman Achmud – who walked in & laid down his arms a couple of days back, when asked the question as to whether the Turks saw any of our patrols at night he answered "only when we saw them smoking cigarettes". Though this is an unpardonable crime for a soldier on patrol duty it only conveys a slight conception of what these fellows are prepared to do to do. They are utterly reckless & never think of the imminent danger surrounding them – they stand up in their trenches & lean over & show half a body to get a better smack at a Turkish sniper or other enemy target – they ignore & brush aside all regulations governing trench fighting. They take their own initiative & perhaps their continued success has been due a great deal due to this. "They are too eager", said an artillery officer of 25 years experience the other day, "yet they are brilliant soldiers".

With regard to the Turkish prisoner mentioned above, he walked into the trenches at the head of the Sazli Beit Dere at dawn & with a characteristic expression of disgust, threw down his rifle & said "me finished". He was a tall big lump of a fellow, a Roumeliote from Adrianople. Under examination he said that the Turks had been told that England had asked for peace & that Germany was now arranging her indemnity. The Turks were all wanting peace – the food was bad, no water or very little, no meat & no bread – beans now & again. He said "if you break a bone or a finger of every Turk you find friendship in it for the English" & he added with


[Page 80]

[The following text appears on the top of Page 81 in the images.]
reference to the Turkish losses wh had been very severe, "In Roumelia, where there are now 12 women looking for husbands where there only used to be six". This is a sample of the characteristic talk of the Turk under examination.

12th Oct 1915

"I have lost the track of what world I am living in
Of what day I am seeing,
I only know that there is blue about
The blue of your eyes
I only know there is music somewhere
Words quick & broken that you have said."

Recomdn. for promotion goes to Army Corps. Major Pinwill has promised he will do what he can for me in this matter.

13th Oct 1915

[Text is crossed out]

14th Oct 1915

London Official 13/10/15 – Bulgaria has declared war on Servia & invaded her on several portions of her eastern frontier. Germans also pressing her in the north.

Meanwhile Greece remains in her "armed" & "benevolent" state of neutrality. The Germans have fiercely counter-attacked in France & beyond a few minor successes have been repulsed all along the line.

A very quiet day locally - one of our aeroplanes was brought down by enemy’s guns yesterday afternoon. The pilot however was able to valplane to within our lines. He landed near the salt lake, Suvla, & was subjected to heavy machine gun & shrapnel fire.


[Page 81]

P.P. 12/10/15

Wireless Messages

Petrograd, Oct 4.
The Russian Minister at Sofia has been ordered to hand to Dr. Radoslavoff, President of the Council, the following note:-

"Events are happening in Bulgaria which show the final resolve of the Government of King Ferdinand to place the fate of the country in the hands of the Germans. The presence of German and Austrian officers in the Ministry of War and on the Headquarter Staff, the concentration of troops in the zone abutting on Servia, the substantial financial assistance accepted by the Bulgarian Cabinet from our enemies: all these admit of no further doubt as to the object of the present military preparations of the Bulgarian Government. The Entente Powers, who have at heart the realization of the aspirations of the Bulgarian people, have many times warned Dr. Radoslavoff that any hostile act against Servia would be considered to be hostile to the Entente Powers. The prodigal assurances given by the Bulgarian Minister in reply to these warnings are contradicted by the facts. The representative of Russia, tied to Bulgaria by the imperishable memory of the latter’s liberation from the Turkish yoke, cannot sanction by his presence agressive fratricidal preparations against an allied Slav people. Consequently the Russian Minister has received orders to leave Bulgaria with all his Staff and Consuls, if within 24 hours the Bulgarian Government does not openly break with the enemies of the Slav cause and of Russia and does not take immediate steps to remove officers belonging to the armies of the States which are at war with the Entente Powers."

Oct 8.
The Bulgarian reply to the Russian note not being considered satisfactory, diplomatic relations have been broken off. The British, French, Italian and Servian Ministers in Sofia have demanded their passports.


[Page 82]

Oct 9.
The Russian Minister, who is suffering from appendicitis, remains in Sofia. The representatives of the other Entente Powers have left.

Rome, Oct 9.
Baron Sonnino, Minister of Foreign Affairs, has handed the Bulgarian Minister his passport.

Athens, Oct. 6.
News from Bucharest shows that Roumania is taking extraordinary military measures. Troops have gone to the Bulgarian frontier and officers of Bulgarian origin are being transferred to the interior. Giurgevo, on the Danube, South of Bucharest is being fortified.

Athens, Oct 9.
The new Government, formed after the resignation of M. Venizelos, owing to King Constantine’s opposition, has decided to observe an attitude of "benevolent neutrality." M. Venizelos majority will support the new Government in order to avoid "complications at this critical juncture."

London, Oct. 9.
The Austro-German attack on Serbia has begun with an attempt to cross the three frontier rivers, the Danube, the Savo and the Drina. The enemy claim to have effected a crossing at many places, and to have obtained a firm footing on the Serbian banks.

R.E. Printing


[Page 83]

[Text crossed out]

They are still complaining at home of not receiving any letters from me & are still quoting the fact of Arthur’s letters having reached there. They don’t seem to be able to calculate the change chance of my letters having been posted not till a couple of mails later than his, and this is what actually happened. I have sent Field Post Cards in acknowledgement of them all.

I have now learnt that the aeroplane (previous page) [Page 80] was forced to the ground owing to engine trouble – but that as soon as she landed the Turks opened & damaged one of her planes with shrapnel. The aviator escaped & the machine was secured & repaired.

It has been bitterly cold today & it seems that winter is now on top of us.

Friday 15th Oct 1915

Ack. Dad’s letter of 29th Aug. & Mabs 16th, 23rd & 29th Aug.

New Zealand casualties - Christchurch Sept. 15 – "The casualties among the N.Z. forces at the Dardanelles are as follows –

Officers 78 killed, 201 wounded, 15 missing
Men 1231 killed, 4083 wounded, 530 missing

Totals 1309 killed, 4284 wounded, 545 missing

This gives a total of casualties of all ranks of 6138.

Saturday 16th Oct 1915

[Text crossed out] Home letters tell me that Sydney went mad one day in August when the City was informed that the Dardanelles had fallen. Flags were flown & all were wild with excitement. Perth too seems to have received this huge "canard". What a huge joke considering our stagnation here.

The Turkish Festival of Beiram begins between the 18th & 20th instants, & lasts for four days. It is quite possible that the Turks may be prevailed upon to make a fanatical attack, & all ranks have been


[Page 84]

warned to be on the alert.

Reports came from Suvla way that the Turks in the trenches have been circulated with the news that the Germans will be down to help them in a few weeks. Ah! me, any old lie to keep them going. I think the Turk is about tumbling to the German’s chicanery as a liar now – the deserters we have all proclaim that they don’t believe half what the Germans tell them. And no wonder.

We held a demonstration this morning along the whole line from Lone Pine to Chocolate Hill. Its object was to draw the enemy’s fire, gain knowledge of his strength & any of his new positions. It was an utter failure – it was too mild & spasmodic & the "canny" Turk kept as quiet as a mouse.

War Office Telegram 14/10/15 (inter alia) – Bulgarian forces have crossed the Serbian frontier & are attacking the Serbians north & south of the Sofia-Neck railway. The Serbians are fighting desperately with the troops of Gen. Mackensen which crossed the Danube at Belgrade & to the east near Semendria. Our allies claim to have inflicted serious losses on the enemy.

M. Viviani, the French Premier, in the Chamber yesterday, made a sympathetic reference to Roumania & foreshadowed energetic military action on the part of the Allies including Russia, for the purpose of ensuring respect for the treaty of Bucharest.

Our Athens correspondent sends a summary of a great speech wh M. Venizelos delivered in the Greek Chamber on Monday. His main point was that apart altogether from her obligations to Serbia it was essential that Greece should at once intervene in order to safeguard her territories from Bulgarian aggression.

The Bulgarian Minister in London has been handed his passport.

Russian victories continue.

W.O. Telegram Oct. 15 (inter alia): M. Delcasse has resigned. M. Viviani, the French Premier, stated that he had done so for reasons of health. The French public is not altogether satisfied with the Premier’s statement on the Balkan question & a more detailed explanation is awaited in some quarters.

Though the Serbians are hard pressed by a double invasion they appear to be holding up the Germanic forces wh crossed the Danube & to have inflicted a check on the Bulgarians.

W.O. Telegram Oct. 16 (inter alia) The French Premier declared in the Senate yesterday that he had reason to believe they would not remain aloof from the Allies


[Page 85]

operations in the Balkans.

Sunday 17th Oct 1915

Wrote to Mabel one of my interim "casualty" letters "a momentary inspiration".

It came to me quite suddenly today how congenial & attractive are my duties. This is due no doubt to my absolute control of the work allocated to me, & I can say it without any over-confidence that I implicitly trusted by my officers. This is strikingly the case with Major Pinwill (who is Senior Staff Officer whilst Col. Braithwaite is away). He never worries me, though he is a thorough Tartar with others. He has promised to give me every support to gain promotion to S. Sergeant. The situation is unchanged. This has become the stereotyped report of all Brigades. We are now settled down comfortably in winter quarters, & prepared for a long wait. We have been tutored up to it so we can’t suffer much disappointment. The artillery & naval guns engage their usual targets during the day & night & opposing snipers have their daily & nightly duels, but beyond these uneventful episodes, nothing occurs to mar the peacefulness of our life. I am feeling in excellent health & eating well & hearty.

War Office Telegram 17/10/15 (inter alia) officially stated Great Britain is at war with Bulgaria.

British Losses - Extract from "Spectator" Sept. 18 1915.

Killed or died from wounds – Officers – 4965 – Other ranks – 70992 – Totals – 75957
Wounded – Officers 9973 – Other ranks – 241086 – Totals 251059
Missing – Officers 1501 – Other ranks 53466 – Totals 54967

16439 – 365544 – 381983

Monday 18th Oct. 1915

The days drag along quietly with the same unchanging routine week after week. We hear & see little of the enemy, who seem to be awaiting developments as we are. Whether they are awaiting events with the same patience & usual as our men are I don’t know. I have my doubts. A miserable half-clad poorly clad halfstarved Turk Deserter sneaked away from his lines the other night & claimed our protection & generosity. He seemed to be semidemented & his answers to questions were unintelligible in that they had no relevancy & were childlike in their simplicity. These long dreary winter days in the trenches must be hellish torture to some of these poor devils. 2 barrels of water per Bn a day they receive – no meat, some bread occasionally other than [indecipherable] mealy biscuits they live & fight on (vide latest examination of Turk prisoners) & labour [indecipherable] that some Bns fare better than others – as depends mainly on their position in the firing line & the officers who command them. The Turks are never well clothed.


[Page 86]

The weather has now taken on its winter coat. Rain storms are frequent & the wind blows damp & bleak. Grim angry clouds scud low overhead and threaten to deluge us throughout the day. The passage of wild fowl has begun, & flocks of all variety of game – geese, cranes, wild duck, quail & pigeons – pass over, squeaking & squawking to one another as they battle against the fury of the elements. The swallows have swarmed days ago, & left us for warmer climes, (on this see extract from Westminster Gazette …)

Work in the office has become unusually dull. The Major sits & reads novels, Hilaire Belloc, Jack London, & all the General’s literature when he can – "Tatler", "Life" (New York), "The Passing Show", "Sketch", "Graphic". "Punch" seems to be his favourite. "John Bull" occasionally turns up & its virulent articles relieve the monotony of the other stereotyped press news.

Tuesday 19th Oct 1915

Watch has at last turned dog on me. After winding this morning it stopped & would not go. I endeavoured to remedy the difficulty by picking at its work with a jack-knife when suddenly bz – off went a spring, the minute second hand fell off & the whole works of machinery ran amuck. I shall treasure the watch as a memento, however. Its not served me too badly.

We evacuate about 40 to 50 sick every day. The actual casualties do not average 10 a day at the present in the Division.

The Germans have executed an English woman in Brussels on the grounds that she had harboured & assisted British & French soldiers & Belgians of military age (W.O.T. 17/10/15).

Wednesday 20th Oct 1915

In conversation with Capt. B. Mair this morning (GSO 3) he remarked upon the contrast between Div. Hqrs in Gallipoli & those in France. "The latter are invariably in some Chateau or country residence" he remarked, "6 or 7 miles back from the firing line, & if a Staff Officer wants to take his breakfast across the road he calls his motor car, so to speak. A Staff Officer is very seldom seen in the firing line" he concluded.

Wintry conditions now prevail – a high wind howled throughout the night & this morning blew with tempestuous force from all quarters. A strong wind here plays the devil with our bivouacs dugouts, especially those of primitive build. The nature of the country favours an adverse wind, so alternated is it with gullies, narrow-gutted defiles & passes, there is little protection from


[Page 87]

the elements anywhere: bleak, bitter are the climatic conditions. Rain continues to threaten & the office is deluged with huge dust clouds that renders work nigh impossible. All have begun to assault their great coats, & continued physical exercise of some description or other is required to keep one’s self warm. Altogether I feel splendid & the change from exasperating heat to bitter cold seems to have favoured my physique. I feel I am keener, I have lost the lackadaisical feeling which permeated me during the stifling hot days, & I eat & sleep better.

Thursday 21st Oct 1915

Nothing unusual – weather unchanged. Very quiet days. Maj. P. fills in his spare time by raiding the remnants of the flies wh seek the shelter of the Office with a fly whisk. It seems to amuse him – I suppose it relieves his scattered thoughts a little.

Friday 22nd Oct 1915

Sgt Parsons, AAG’s Branch, was scraped on the head by an "over" last night. It was a narrow squeak, & it turned him up a little some, but he has got over it now.

I was struck by the solicitude & anxiety shown by Lord Charles Bentinck (AAG) who made it his business to walk to Parson’s bivouac & personally inquire as to how he was getting along.

Italy has declared war on Bulgaria (W.O. Telegram 21/10/15).

Saturday 23 Oct 1915

Bleak raw day – tempestuous sea running. Gen. Godley leaves for Mudros to meet Lt Col Rhodes.

Sunday 24 Oct 1915

Weather unchanged – shelled with shrapnel during afternoon.

Monday 25th Oct 1915

Rose at 5.30. A beautiful morning like in early spring. The weather has changed in a night. The threatening clouds, bleak wind, & raw atmosphere of yesterday have been replaced by a bright blue sky & the warm sun’s rays.

Everyone seems happier – the birds sing cheerfully & flutter about the bushes with awakened activity – the troops welcome the change with whistle & song & seem rejuvenated in their appreciation of the perfect morn. I walked with Cocks before breakfast to 54th Div. lines, had a


[Page 88]

warm sponge bath on return, & ate a hearty breakfast of biscuit porridge.

Vide P. Press
Athens Victory - The Greek Government has formally informed Serbia that the Bulgarian attack arises out of an extension of area of European war & is not a Balkan war, consequently Greece declines to abide by the treaty concluded with Serbia.

British Press have denied today (Oct 24) report of the "Daily Telegraph" that the Govt is expected to cede Cyprus to Greece in the event of Greece joining the Allies.

An allied Squadron bombarded Bulgarian coast afternoon of 21st Oct for distance of 38 miles. A number of military look-out stations along the coast were destroyed & gun emplacements shelled. Harbour works at Dedeagatch were bombarded. Incidentally shipping warehouse, piers etc., railway bridge on east end of town, & much rolling stock was destroyed. Several large fires were started, one evidently an old torpedo depot. Residential part of town not attacked. Enemy did not reply.

British & Russian Ministers have conferred with M. Zaimis, the Greek Premier & informed him that their Govts. did not agree with the Greek interpretation of Servian treaty. The landing of French troops at Salonika is continuing regularly under the best conditions. The French troops who have crossed the Greek frontier have got into touch with the Servian troops.

Poldhu (high powered wireless Stn. Cornwall) Press 23rd Oct (inter alia)
It is officially announced that bombardment of Bulgarian coast from Dedeagatch to Gorla Tazzi was commenced on Thursday last. Inhabitants & garrison at Dedeagatch evacuated & retired to interior.

Servians are making a profitable resistance to both Germans & Bulgarians & are inflicting enormous losses on the enemy on both fronts.

Russians have captured at various points of front between 11000 & 12000 of the enemy. In Galicia another coup-de-man has resulted


[Page 89]

in capture of enemy’s position near Sarnapul, 7500 prisoners & 148 officers were taken.

A big offensive has been commenced by the Italians along their whole front.

Roumanian Newspaper "Funincale" publishes following declaration of Russian General Vienoliko, Adjutant of Czar, who is on his way to Serbian HQrs – "In fortnight at latest Russian troops will land on Bulgarian coast".

Commenting on execution of Miss Cavell by the Germans in Brussels the –

"New York Herald" says – "A wave of horror has swept through America."

New York "Tribune" - "It is impossible to believe British men will fail where British women have succeeded so gloriously."

New York "Press" - "The iron hand of soul-less Germany has struck another blow which kindles a new bitter indignation all human."

New York "Sun" - "It has struck the world with horror."

Chicago "Post" - "Miss Cavell’s blunder murder is one more first-rank blunder of German statesmanship."

Chicago "Journal" - Crime is adverse to all instincts of humanity & western ideas of womanhood."

Sir Ian Hamilton returned from Dardanelles today (Oct 23) & paid early visit to War Office. He was cheered on arrival by large crowd.

The King has issued appeal to his people in which His Majesty calls upon men of all classes to come forward & volunteer & take their share of fighting for the honour of the nation.

(Poldhu Press News ends.)

Army Corps approves of my promotion to Actg Corporal with pay of that rank. Notification of promotion to appear in next A.I.F. Orders.

Enemy shelled us today at 1 pm & at 7 pm It was


[Page 90]

particularly violent on both occasions, though it did not last long. The wireless station on the ridge just above us, not 100 yards away, had special attention, & one of the aerials was destroyed. It was however soon repaired.

The evening bombardment created a mild change from the lethargy of the last few nights. The dull boom of the Turk gun as it sent its awful missile on its voyage of destruction gave us sufficient warning to allow us to take cover & we crouched & anxiously waited whilst we could hear the eerie song of the shell as it cleft the air in its approach. And as we crouched we all prayed that it might go over – out to sea anywhere but where we were. At last it came with an awful whizz as of a sudden burst of steam from a huge exhaust, it came like a meteor from the heavens & plugged with a terrific deep-throated roar into the side of the hill not a dozen yards away. A simultaneous flash of red blood red flame converted the surrounding gloom & darkness for an instant into fiery light & silhouetted us all as if we were lost souls in Hell witnessing a ceremony of the Devil. For seconds after the explosion the air was filled with flying falling earth & torn bushes & the nauseous odor of the burnt explosive was stifling in its intensity. Three of those huge monsters were hurled at us in quick succession, but happily they accounted for no loss of life. Now that Bulgaria has joined our enemies we may reasonably expect the intensity of Turkish shell fire to increase in numbers both in weight & numbers. K of K has sent a warning in regard to this & advised us to "dig" ourselves in & strengthen our defensive positions greater than ever so that we may be immune from any shell fire great or small however great. But


[Page 91]

I doubt the resisting power of any earthwork or redoubt against these heavy shells. They plough huge craters in the ground & their size may be judged by the fact that one of the base of one wh was fired last night could have covered a large dinner plate with ease. And they stand 3½ feet high.

Tuesday 26th Oct 1915

Gen. Godley, accompanied by Lieut-Col Heaton Rhodes returns from Mudros.

The weather continues warm, but rain is again threatening.

There has been a heavy naval bombardment today of an enemy encampment in direction of Kilid Bair. The roar of the gun has rent the air all day & the incessant concussion has been of nerve-racking effect. The health of the troops is improving.

P.P. 26/10/15

Wednesday 27th Oct 1915

A wild boisterous day with high wind from SE. Rising temperature heralds approach of stormy weather. The office has been deluged with dust which lies an inch thick on tables etc.

The Turks are determined to shift us. At midday during the height of the gale they bombarded us for half an hour with big shell within a circle of 100 yds diameter. The shells owing to the roar of the wind could not be heard till right upon us & we could not place their direction. The first was beautifully timed – it came with a deafening whizz, glanced off the back wall of the cook house & went clean through one of the escort’s dug-outs as if it were made of tissue paper. It came to a dead-end half a dozen yds above the General’s quarters. A second shell planted itself near the wireless pole & a third tore a crater in the earth at the mouth of the gully near the Indian Camp. And then followed a fusillade of two or three shells a minute. The strong & cantankerous wind planted them in all sorts of odd places & interesting places but fortunately no one was injured. An Indian gunner received a slight chest bruise from a shell planted


[Page 92]

or piece of dislodged earth.

By Wireless Oct. 27: Servian counter-attack against Austro-Germans completely successful taking guns & booty. Important success in Champagne, French taking four lines of trenches on front of 1000 yds. German losses serious.

The King has visited Army in France, & the French papers look upon it as a happy event.

Berlin admits British submarine sunk large cruiser Prinz Adalbert & two torpedo boats off Libau, also that superior Russian forces repelled German forces from Illux. Italians making good ground.

W.O.T. 26.10.15 - In five days the Germans have made eight fruitless attacks on the French Positions in the Givenchy Wood in Artois. The report is now confirmed that the German plans were seriously upset by the recent offensive of the Allies in Artois & Champagne & that the staff were unable to throw fresh reserves into the menaced positions. It also appears that the enemy believed that General Joffre’s move was to be made in Alsace where they had accordingly massed troops.

Reuter message - Stated that Greece’s reply to the Entente Note offering her Cyprus & other secessions if she sided with the Allies stated that she did not see her way clear at the present to accept the offers of the Allies.

Thursday 28th Oct 1915
Changes in the weather are meteoric in their suddeness. Today it is quite calm, warm & sultry. The boisterous conditions of yesterday have entirely disappeared.

Received letter from Grace dated 6 Sept. Expect larger mail in by Saturday. They have at last received my first batch of letters – Mabel has received 2 letters & those at Annandale got letters & P.C’s. All these were written on board the "Berrima".

Friday 29th Oct 1915

Warm weather prevails – there is not a breath of wind & the morning is very calm & peaceful. Suffering from slight pain in pit of back. Afraid got slight cold walking to Walker’s Ridge yesterday after mail.

Appt as Actg Corporal appears A.I.F. Orders 28th Oct 1915.


[Page 93]

Miss Carell [Edith Cavell], an English nurse in Brussels, who was tried by Court-Martial for aiding British, French and Belgium prisoners of war to escape from Belgium, has been brutally murdered by order of the German authorities. A full account of this atrocity is given in papers issued by the Press Bureau in London on the 20th inst. Miss Carell was not allowed to see her counsel before trial, and was not permitted to inspect the documents for the prosecution. She was found guilty at a second CourtMartial and was condemned to death. Desperate protests by the United States and the Spanish Ministers in Brussels were ignored. Both Ministers pleaded for delay in order than an appeal might be lodged, but the Germans were unmoved. The execution took place at an early date after sentence had been passed. On seeing the firing party Miss Carell collapsed and was shot by a German officer while she lay on the ground. Intense indignation has been roused all over the world by this tragic example of German inhumanity.


[Page 94]

Ack. Grace’s letter 6th Sept.

Saturday 30th Oct 1915

Pleasant weather & quiet all round. Turks dropping a few shells about us but nothing to really disturb us has occurred.

Sunday 31st Oct 1915

Col. Braithwaite returns from Malta & after having stayed a few days at Mudros to inspect Brigades.

He has returned his usual boisterous happy self, & his reappearance is as welcome as a ray of sunshine on a bleak winter’s morn.

[Paragraph of shorthand not transcribed.]

As I expected our "windy" office will now undergo a complete reconstruction. Its present comfort(s) is not approved of by the Col. It must be made more roomy, more tables & chairs provided. There must be more protection from the cold & dust etc etc. Eh, what!

"Well, how have things been going in my absence, Rhodes" remarked the Colonel. "I have everything in apple-pie order, Sir." "Well done, excellent," complimented the Colonel.

The Col. has turned full of vigour and full of interesting news. Speaking to Col Chaytor, Brig-Gen Johnston, Maj Pinwill, & sundry others at the door of the office this morning, he related in graphic style a story of the sinking of the troopship (?) a few days back by 2 Austrian submarines. Leaning his excellent frame of muscle & bone against the sandbag wall, with his arms akimbo, he told his story to his attentive audience with extreme fascination using his well cultured voice with admirable modulation, expressively & earnestly, now speaking in an awed whisper, then raising his voice to express abhorrence of some dastardly act. His intonation was perfect, & all the while his well cut features worked in harmony with his utterances. He told his story as an actor would speak his dramatic lines, as an histrionic master would recite a soul-stirring poem. I shall endeavour to give the story as told by the Col. "Well the --- was a cranky ill-fitted & equipped old tub, the best you could get out of her being 6½ knots. She was without wireless, few boats, & life-saving appliances, belts etc were nil. She left Alexandria a few days back loaded with Indian reinforcements, in the charge of 5 Indian Reserve


[Page 95]

Army officers, for Gallipoli, via Mudros. The Capt, a good fellow, was well-aware of the seriousness of his task with such a cranky rotten boat, but he was there to obey orders. He determined to carry them out. He knew full well that the enemy submarines had been accounting for an average of 2 transports weekly on the Alexandria-Mudros run for the last 2 months.

Well, the Ramazon Rameses left Alexandria, under orders to take a definite course which was judged to be the only safe course. Lo & behold, before she was 3 miles out, a picket boat came bounding along the ship’s side with sealed despatches. The Captain hurriedly tore them open & to his amazement found that his course had been altered – he was to go round the south of Crete & then steer north – quite opposite to his original orders. It was a rather significant sign, though perhaps not fully appreciated at the time, that the paper giving the altered course was not officially signed, only the covering memo bore signature. This was contrary to set rules governing despatches of the kind, but the Capt believed everything to be OK, & so off he started on the new trail.

They reached Crete safely & turning with & were well on their way north before anything happened. The unexpected came like a bolt from the blue. It was early morn, the sea was in an oily calm, & not a breath of wind disturbed its surface; & then the two ominous & dreaded black objects suddenly appeared on the surface not half a mile away, one to right & the other to the left. The ship was caught in a cleft stick. The alarm was immediately given, & the troops crowded the decks & rushed for – alas, the much-needed but missing life belts & boats. They were welcomed instead with a terrific fusillade of shot & shell from a quick firer & rifles on each submarine which swept broadcast the deck of the ill-fated vessel with callous & brutal butchery. Five boats were only available. These were launched as quickly as possible, but two were so riddled with bullets that when they touched the water they simply turn filled & turned turtle emptying the poor devils of occupants into the icy sea. The Captain was the last to leave the ship & after a hard struggle reached one of the seaworthy boats which had been successfully launched. The submarine lost no time in putting a couple of deadly torpedo into the doomed vessel & she sank within blew up & sank with a gurgling roar in five minutes after she had been struck. Three boats had managed to get away, luckily they had some filled water kegs aboard – otherwise their occupants would certainly have died


[Page 96]

then & there from downright thirst – as not even a biscuit could be found among them. Most of the men survivors had been wounded & one Officer had several bullets in his legs. He had been capsized out of one of the overturned boats, & how he managed to keep afloat long enough to be picked up remains was a miracle. There were 2 or 3 officers amongst the saved – the others were Indians & some of the vessel’s Dago crew.

Nothing could be done but make for a barren bit of an island which loomed on the horizon. After a long & bitter struggle, the wet, clothed & sodden sodden clothed, starved & thirsty survivors reached the shore. They found it to be habited only by a few ignorant Greek shepherds with goats who treated them with marked hostility & refused them food. No explanation of their misery or condition would make the blasted Dagos give them any help. So they found snails on the beach & lived on them.

One of the Dago crew volunteered to take a message to a cable station which he knew some miles away & taking one of the boats he succeeded in reaching the island from where an urgent message was sent to the Authorities for assistance. A reply came that a cruiser would be despatched at once. The Greek brought the reply back to the stranded wretches & after they had showed it to the inhospitable Dago inhabitants, they reluctantly killed a couple of goats on which the hungry survivors made a ravenous meal. Evidently, the fear of what vengeance the cruiser might enact upon them on her arrival stirred the blighters to some give some kind of help.

The cruiser ultimately arrived – she was a foreigner unfortunately, but she afforded what help she could & took the unhappy them away to the nearest port where proper attention could be given. A remarkable incident of the voyage back was that the Dago Surgeon on the cruiser refused to amputate one of the legs of the officer who was bleeding to death from a jagged shell wound. When He agreed to give an


[Page 97]

anaesthetic if anyone else could be found to do the job, whereupon, rather than see his friend die before his eyes, another of the belated officers who also had half a dozen wounds about him, & who was the only other Dr available, consented to sit up or be propped up, & performed the operation with the blood oozing from his own agonising wounds whilst he sawed the right leg off his sorely stricken chum. What a situation – God, the fellow had nerve, & thank God they are both alive to tell the tale & doing well. They are now in hospital at Malta, & the closest of friends. I should think so, Eh, what!" concluded the Colonel.

The "Marquette" which was torpedoed in the Gulf of Salonika a few days ago had on board a Red Cross detachment, also a Divisional ammunition column. She was treated by the submarine with ruthless severity – several Red Cross nurses were wounded, & 600 horses were lost.

Gen. Sir Ian Hamilton has been replaced by Gen. Sir C.C. Munro K.C.B., as Commander in Chief of the Med. Exped. Forces. Took over command from the 27th Oct 1915.

The following cable from the Premier N.S.W. appeared in Div. Orders 30th Oct 1915 –

To Gen Godley – 
"Australia day fund this State now three quarters million stop. 200000 available for amelioration conditions disabled soldiers balance to be drawn upon by Red Cross for comforts nursing assistance mainly oversea hospitals. Confidently believe these two sets machinery cooperating with military authorities will render all needed assistance. Comfort for our brave men when money exhausted more money will be provided."
(Sgd) Holman, Premier.

To Holman – 
Many thanks patriotic action and munificent generosity of your people highly & greatly appreciated by all Australian troops of my division.
(Sgd) Godley.


[Page 98]

Vide A.G. Hales in "John Bull" 4/9/15 – in refutation of some English critics – slanderers – who are deploring to the detriment of the British Tommy here the failure of British troops to cooperate with the Australians when the latter had to fall back from a position they had won by superb daring – when they actually saw the Dardanelles & had their thumb on the Turks windpipe, & but for this lack of reinforcements – failure it was – they would have closed right round his throat & the Turkish Army have been cut off from its source of supplies (See Colonel Braithwaite’s letter re failure of British troops on this occasion).

I quote the extract from "John Bull" because of its faithful representation of the difficulties & hardships of the stupendous task we have before us -

Says the article "It has been easy for the Germans in their attacks on French, British, or Russians fronts to time their blows like clockwork – they have had the use of the finest military railways in the world, & their staffs could keep in touch (during an action) all the time by telegraph, telephone & heliographs but where our troops were fighting none of these things was available. But the men had to scramble as best they might through a perfect network of forbidding hills – they had to clamber like goats up precipitous cliffs & go down terrible declivities, they had to thread a passage amidst dense thorn scrub where officers & men could not possibly keep in touch. One & all they did their best, & what their best is, the inhospitable heights & plateaux of the Gallipoli peninsula could tell, had the stones tongues. We must all regret our fine fellows did not get to the coveted positions, but the men who criticise them harshly, the pariahs who place themselves in the seats of the scornful should be driven at the point of the bayonet to take part in the next blow that is struck under those


[Page 99]

scorching blistering skies, amid rocks & precipices, poison thorn bushes & jagged flint strewn ravines: where the little grey speckled flies swarm in myriads to torment the wounded to madness & thirst, heat & dust bake a fallen man’s throat until it is black & his tongue turns to stirrup leather."

Monday 1st Nov. 1915

A quiet night day, but had a hell of a gale about 7 o’clock at night. It came without warning from the SE & hissed & tore around us for a full half hour. The air was full of flying pebbles & pockets of dust & debris & stung & wounded the faces & hands of those who were had been unfortunate enough not to secure timely shelter. The sea raged & roared & tossed huge breakers on to the sandy shore. Many boats & lighters were unable to withstand its fury, & were driven on to the shallows & aground.

Tuesday 2nd Nov 1915

The morning broke calm, with not a breath of wind, & the sea had quietened considerably though still heaving & swelling from its overnight struggles. One paddle steamer – a tug – lay high & dry on the beach below No. 2 Post & the Turks lost no time in getting on to it with big shells, but they made very poor practice. They also turned the machine guns on to the men aboard her & they were compulsorily obliged to abandon her.

Wednesday 3rd Nov 1915

Nothing eventful.

Thursday 4th Nov 1915

Received letter from Mabel dated 19 Sept. also 2 Sunday Times &

Friday 5th Nov 1915

Ack. Mab’s letter – mainly about my "mow" as she calls it.


[Page 100]

The enemy again turned his 8.2 shells on to us today this afternoon – about tea time; planting two into the middle of the hospital tents, another perilously near the wireless station, & a further one just above the office on the hill opposite. One poor devil had his legs blown off whilst there were several other serious casualties in the hospital.

A "funk" hole is to be built to enable us to take shelter from these monsters of destruction.

Saturday 6th Nov 1915

Sent F.P.A. Cards with Xmas & New Year Greetings to

Sunday 7th Nov 1915

It is announced by the War Office that the British transport "Ramazan" has been sunk by shell fire in the Aegean Sea on Sept 19 by enemy submarine. Out of 380 Indian troops aboard 75 were saved, together with 28 of the crew.

There is no truth the Press Bureau states in the report that Lord Kitchener has resigned. He has been sent on a special mission by the Govt. and his duties at the War Office are being temporarily discharged by Mr. Asquith.

Monday 8th Nov 1915

I have been joined in the office by Sgt. Wakeland who has been sick in hospital at Alexandria.

Troops who have been resting at Mudros are gradually returning & will all be back by the end of the week, viz., 9th AIB., N.Z.M.R. Bde., & N.Z.I. Bde. The 7th AIB will then go to its own Division – 2nd H. Division the right.

Mr. Cross, General Rhodes’ Private Secretary, has left for Mudros where he will wait the arrival Colonel. Cross was a great joke here. I was not surprised at his leaving so soon. He soon found out not all violets, he made great fuss when he could not get more than one blanket to cover his precious frame. He was [indecipherable] the anniversary of his service in the New Zealand Government and I am sure he left here for the safer waters of Mudros because flying bullets & shrapnel might cut off the chance of his enjoying the "fruits" in the shape of a magnanimous position of this Civil Service life. He was a typical old woman with about as much cheek as a


[Page 101]

a scorched mosquito & as much brain as an addled drunk. He kept well clear of the firing line except when absolutely obliged to accompany Col Rhodes on his morning jaunts round the trenches. I’ve no doubt he will go back & tell glowing tales & fill the "Morning press" of NZ with his wonderful exciting experiences at the front of his brave comrades in arms, of his thousand an one narrow squeaks from awful death.

It is announced by the War Office that K.K. has left England for a short visit to the eastern theatre of war.

As yet there is no definite news of a settlement of the Greek crisis. Reports as to whether M. Zaimis will, or will not, form a Cabinet are contradictory. The Entente powers have through the Russian Minister in Athens, informed the Greek Govt of the spirit in which they view the trend of events.

The police yesterday raided the "Globe" newspaper and seized the plant.

By wireless (P.O. 8/10/15) The resignation of the Greek Govt after the refusal of the Chamber to pass a vote of confidence in the Zaimis Cabinet, raises once more the constitutional question between King Constantine (brother in law of the Kaiser) & Parliament. At the general election in June M. Venizelos was returned with a majority of 63 over the possible combinations, but the illness of the King was made the excuse for postponing the meeting of the new Parliament until late in August when M. Venizelos again accepted the Premiership. The Greek Army was mobilised on Sept. 26 & on Oct. 2nd M. Venizelos announced that Greece would stand by her treaty with Serbia if the Bulgarians attacked the Serbians. King Constantine refused to recognise this treaty as binding. M. Venizelos thereupon resigned & a new Cabinet pledged to neutrality was formed on Oct. 8 under the leadership of M. Zaimis. The Chamber rejected the vote of confidence by a majority of 33 and a dissolution of Parliament was expected.

A telegram from Athens on Nov. 5 states that


[Page 102]

King Constantine has summoned the party leaders to a conference of the political situation.

A later telegram announced the formation of a new Cabinet with M. Skouloudis as Prime Minister in place of M Zaimis who ceased to hold any portfolio.

Tuesday Nov 9

Serbia through her representatives in London has issued an appeal to her friends in Great Britain begging that help will be sent to her quickly. "Serbia has been condemned to death by the Germans, Austrians, and Bulgarians" says the Serbian Minister "over 20 days our common enemies have been trying to annihilate us. In spite of the spirit of our soldiers our resistance cannot be expected to be maintained indefinitely." FrancoBritish Forces are said to have reached a point 90 miles north of Salonika but it is doubtful if they can join the Serbians in time to prevent them from being annihilated.

Wednesday 10th Nov

It is officially reported that British troops moving northwards from Salonika have joined hands with the Serbians, and that a Russian Army of 250,000 is on its way to Bulgaria.

Negotiations between Great Britain & Sweden (vide Stockholm message) with a view to agreement on commercial questions have been broken off.

The "Times" states that Gen Joffre came to London to discuss the Balkan situation. & to arrive at a complete understanding with regard to the military policy on all points & to an understanding of giving rapid help to Serbia.

London by wireless Nov. 8 Lord Kitchener has conferred with Gen Joffre and the Premier


[Page 103]

according to Paris newspapers. Kitchener’s conference in Paris has produced a thorough understanding with the French Govt. K of K will visit Dardanelles, Egypt, Macedonia, Greece.

The Greek Cabinet has been reconstructed & it will maintain an attitude of very benevolent neutrality towards Entente.

Today has been a day of events locally. Our feeling of security from enemy fire in this little hollow wh we call Otago Gully has been decisively shattered in one short hour. Our palatial & comfortable home wh has been erected at so much pain & with such diligent care and made so beautiful to the eye with its large sandbag offices covered with varied colored tarpaulins along its parallel tiers of terraces has lost all its romantic calm serenity & been practically wiped out in places by terrific shell fire. The enemy have found us out. That they have not been fully aware of our delightful abode before this, I have not doubted such for a thing for a moment. But we have been lulled into a false sense of security because of their supposed lack of ammunition, & we have failed to take the necessary precautions against bombardment, viz. by digging into the bowels of the earth & making tunnels of retreat, which are the only safeguards against the tremendous lumps of metal wh the enemy are now launching at us with apparent prodigal expenditure.

Since Bulgaria declared war Turkey has been steadily reinforcing her ammunition supplies, & we are now receiving the full benefit of it. We have been warned about it & our inactivity is costing us dear.

The bombardment opened about 3 pm – whirr, whirr, whirr – then simultaneously a number of terrific explosions which made the earth tremble beneath our feet. Then an interval of 2 or 3 minutes. Then more of the huge metal monsters billeted themselves amongst us – one completely wrecked the General’s dining room & shattered the


[Page 104]

adjoining Officers mess. In 2 seconds they had become a shambles heap of smoking ruins – sandbags perched on top of one another at indescribable angles, twisted, scorched & burning timber beams shattered chairs & tables – everything confusion, everything wrecked beyond repair. And if it had occurred an hr. later, the whole of the Gen Staff would have had their names added to the Roll of Honours for afternoon tea is served at 4 pm and is invariably attended by all Staff Officers, from GOC & his distinguished afternoon visitors. from Colonel down to Capts. etc.

The bombardment continued incessantly for an hour during wh time our lives were worth not a straw. The air was full of flying shell caps, jagged lumps of steel & burning metal, & the rank smoke and fumes were nauseating and stifling to nigh suffocation.

The Turks had turned 8.2 howitzers on to us & were firing rapidly & with deadly accuracy. Our tin & waterproof roofs, & sandbag shelters were of little avail against the huge monsters wh they poured into us. Their size may be judged by a hole wh one tore in the terrace outside the Artillery Cmdrs dug-out. It was fully 6 ft deep with a diameter of fully 12 ft. Beyond the great damage to the offices etc., nothing serious resulted. It was miraculous that there was no death or injured roll. The wireless station office over the hill was completely demolished & 3 men there were buried alive by falling earth & other debris. They were dug out uninjured, though suffering very much from shock. Their nerve system has been blasted for ever.

I had rushed out of the office when the first shell burst & took timely shelter behind the front sandbag wall. It was poor protection against opposition but I had nothing else to do but take my chances like the rest. Some however had considered discretion the better part of valor & cleared out of the camp to neighbouring trenches & saps.

The result of the bombardment has had the effect of accelerating the work in connection with the digging of "funk" holes, & by 5 o’clock 4 more had been commenced by special working parties from the trenches.


[Page 105]

Thursday 11th Nov 1915

The Turks don’t intend to give us any peace. Shortly after 8 o’clock this morning they again opened on us & with deadly effect. Their second shell wiped out 4 men & seriously inured two others & one fell swoop. This party of men had commenced to dig a tunnel from the back of their bivouac dug-out ½ way up the hill: they had only got a few feet in when with a deafening roar the huge missile of death plugged cleane through the roof above them & then blew the poor devils to bits, one other chap was blown clear out of the door: he was blackened with powder from head to foot like a stoker just issuing from the grimy depths of a huge stokehole. He was completely blinded with grit & fumes from the shell & his eyes have been permanently injured. His shirt & trousers were hanging in shreds & he was trembling like a leaf in the wind. He was crying out incoherently & soon fell down in a deep swoon.

Orders were quietly given that all should clear out till the shelling was over, & the command was quietly & very willingly obeyed.

The shelling was continued for about an hour, then stopped as suddenly as it had commenced.

Work of tunnelling continues with unabated vigor, day & night, shafts 20 to 25 ft being sunk, from which branch tunnels are being spread out. Two exits will be provided to each tunnel. These are the only safe precautions against howitzers. They can search every nook & cranny of this gully. They fire into the heavens & come down practically at right angles. Gad! this is war. Give me bullets with a chance to smack back any day in preference to this "rat-in-the-trap" destruction & murder. Crouch where you may above ground you are not safe from these monsters.


[Page 106]

You hear their weird song which sings them on their way, & it becomes intensified as they approach nearer but you don’t know where they are going to land. It is impossible to locate them until they have struck, & then up goes everything within their reach. The concussion is frightfully & powerfully intense & you are lifted about as if you were a mere straw. What puny mites we are & how helpless one feels against these mighty engines of war. "Dig" is Kitchener’s advice, & that is the only advice. Hide yourself in the bowels of the earth.

Capt. C.W. Melvill, New Zealand Staff Corps, has arrived & taken the place of Capt. Mair as GSO (3). He tells many interesting & amusing tales of his experiences in France 12 months ago in the battle of the Aisne & other stupendous struggles in the early stages of the war. He had his arms & legs lacerated by H-E, & had 4 months in hospital in England.

His recital of instances of the brutal callousness of German methods of warfare were to a degree more repulsive than I have read of despite the horribleness of some of the latter have been.

He tells us of German officers entering quiet homes of the villagers & stabling their horses in the dining & drawing rooms tying them up to pianos, bedsteads, etc., & generally converting the houses into dung pits & cesspits for their filthy excreta – being blackguardly plunder & desecration of beautiful homes.

Sent Lil picture P. Card "Daddy

Friday 12th Nov 1915

Nothing eventful – few Turkish shells.

Saturday 13th Nov 1915

Lord Kitchener paid a short visit to Anzac where he was introduced to various Divisl. & Bde Commdrs. He was given a great cheer on his arrival. It was a peremptory official visit and he was gone again after an inspection of the various posts.


[Page 107]

Sunday 14th Nov 1915

Sent Mabel Christmas letter.

Monday 15 Nov 1915

Nothing unusual.

Tuesday 16 Nov. 1915

Nothing eventful.

Wednesday 17th Nov. 1915

Frightful devastating storm at night. Thunder lightning and rain. Hellish weather all day, which developed into a veritable inferno of storm & tempest as night approached. Rain fell in torrents, the wind howled along in terrific gusts. Great damage to piers & beach works, & saps & road work in the several "deres". Some saps are have been converted into raging torrents & practically impassable.

Thursday 18th Nov 1915

Sent Field Cards as ack of Tuesday’s letters. Feeling absolutely off color.

Friday 19th Nov 1915

Splitting headache today. Body has been covered with blood rash for many days now, & the irritation has kept me awake at nights until it has become well nigh insufferable. I feel like if I could scratch my bowels out.

Saturday 20th Nov 1915

Bitterly cold. Restless night – cannot get warm. Affected with lice – little underclothing & cannot get necessary changes. Wrote Mab in ack of hers of 5/10/15.

Sunday 21st Nov 1915

Wrote Grace in ack of hers of 4/10/15.

Monday 22nd Nov 1915

Quiet – very cold. Few snow flakes early morning.

Tuesday 23rd Nov 1915

Quiet.

Wednesday 24 Nov 1915

Thursday 25 Nov 1915

Uneventful. Weather very bleak. Feeling off color, little appetite.

Friday 26th Nov 1915

No change – dull routine & cold weather – monotonous & depressing.

Saturday 27 Nov 1915

Uneventful. Heavy rain, cold wind, & damp. Whole countryside a heap of mud.


[Page 108]

Sunday 28th Nov 1915

Visited with snowstorm early hours of morning. Still falling when I awoke. Whole of the country under a mantle of white. Fall judged to be about 4 inches. Am frightfully sick myself, with overpowering nausea & no appetite. Absolutely unfit for duty. My back also is worrying me. Have been [indecipherable] to complain for last two days. With the traffic, there was soon mud everywhere. I have never seen such slosh – its absolutely impossible to get through it – slide, slip, & slither all over the place, if you are luck enough not to get stuck in it ankle deep.

Monday 29th Nov 1915

Compelled to report sick, sent to No. 2 M R Field Amb. with jaundice. Insufficient room there: sent from there to Casualty Clearing Station, but I refused the accommodation there & went back to my bivouac.

Tuesday 30th Nov 1915

APMS has now sent me to N.Z. Field Amb. Attention good, but food poor & ill-cooked.

Wednesday 1st Dec 1915

Have been sent again to Clearing Station with lumbago & jaundice. Expect to be evacuated shortly. Every man for himself here – with plenty of fleas, lice. Food bad. Biscuits again with black tea.

Thursday 2nd Dec 1915

Left the Clearing Station, thank God, this morning & taken aboard S/S Oxfordshire, a three master hospital ship – excellently fitted.

Friday 3rd Decr 1915

Spent a comfortable night - first sleep for a week – left about 4 a.m. for Mudros where we arrived in due course. Have no idea of my ultimate destination. Had Enjoyed the luxury of a hot sea bath & had my clothes thoroughly disinfected.

Am feeling none too bright.

Left Mudros about 2 o’clock for Alexandria.

Saturday 4th Decr 1915

Life on hospital ship pleasant & comfortable. Member of 17th BN died & was buried at sea. An R.C service performed by C E Chaplain.

Sunday 5th Decr 1915

Arrived Alexandria shortly after breakfast. Disembarked about 3 o’clock & boarded trains for Helipolis. Red Cross served us with tea, bread & butter, & other comforts on the way across. Arrived outside Palace Hospital Heliopolis at about 7 o’clock at night. We were then sorted out & I was taken with a number of others to Luna Park Hospital by Red Cross Motor Wagon.

Served with hot cocoa & biscuits, &


[Page 109]

cigarettes on arrival at hospital. Detailed to I ward in the Pavilion. Kindness shown us everywhere – what a comfort & luxury to get between clean sheets.

Monday 6th Decr 1915

All old clothes taken away – issued with leather shoes & complete outfit from undershirt to jacket & pants.

Treatment excellent – nurses abound with kindness – Red Cross comforts each day – a great variety. Dr. orders a continuance of milk diet – which consists of porridge & bread & butter for breakfast, beef tea & rice, & custard etc. for dinner, something similar for tea.

Tuesday 7th Decr 1915

Sent Mab a long letter.

Dr. says if lumbago does not improve here, he will send me to Helouan where climate is dryer & there are sulphur baths.

Wednesday 8th Decr 1915

Feeling better. Chicken diet.

Thursday 9th Decr 1915

Back & side giving trouble.

Friday 10th Decr. 1915

Ordered to Helouan tomorrow. Fitted out with new clothes entirely.

Saturday 11th Dec 1915

Entrained at Bab-el Louk at about 10.15 am for Helouan, arriving there about 35 minutes later.

Short walk brought us to Hotel Al Hayat our destination. Magnificent palatial building, extensive grounds, gardens, colonnades, etc., now turned into hospital. Put on light (soup) diet. Good food. Picture show at night.

Sunday 12th Decr. 1915

Quiet day – attended Church in Salle-a-manger.

Monday 13th Decr 1915

Uneventful – walked round Helouan during afternoon. Struck with cleanliness as compared with other places in Egypt. Some very fine hotels & private residences.

Tuesday 14th Decr 1915

First interview with Dr since entering hospital. Prescribed medicine, 3 times a day – Alkaline – worst stuff I ever tasted in my life. Attempted to explain


[Page 110]

to Dr. my complaint but he ridiculed my opinion. He puts me in mind of an ex-jockey. I told him my trouble was intestinal & he laughed, & wanted to know how I knew such a thing. Why ask my opinion, when I was evacuated from Gallipoli with jaundice & lumbago. At Luna Park they would do nothing for lumbago & sent me on here for sulphur baths & massage. Finish sulphur baths etc. Wrote Mabel another long letter & sent her P.C.s (one each) of the hospital & the Baths.

The food here is excellent, also the accommodation – its an ideal place to recuperate, the climate is dry & the nights are warm, though heavy fogs visit us early morn, but these are soon dispelled by the rising sun.

Wednesday 15th Decr 1915

Put on "full" diet.

Thursday 16th Decr 1915

Paid 10/- 48 Piastres. Helouan during afternoon.

Friday 17th Decr 1915

Uneventful.

Saturday 18th Decr 1915

Uneventful. Troops evacuate Anzac & Suvla.

Sunday 19th Decr 1915

Sent Mab a letter. Troops evacuate Anzac & Suvla.

Monday 20th Decr. 1915

No letters yet.

Tuesday 21 Decr 1915

Health improves one day, then retrogresses the next. Still taking alkaline. Appetite good.

Wednesday 22 Decr 1915

Feverish with cold shivers throughout last night. Informed the Dr on this mornings parade. Said I must have caught a cold so "carry on". Visited Cairo with Jack. Paid £5.

Thursday 23 Decr 1915

No change; & still no letters. Helouan afternoon.

Friday 24 Decr 1915

Helouan afternoon.

Saturday 25 Decr 1915

Christmas day. Treated well. Splendid dinner, roast fowl, green peas, cauliflower & seasoning, Plum pudding & brandy sauce. Soft drinks. Each man presented with a small tin box


[Page 111]

containing 50 Havelock cigarettes (1 tin), 2 packets cigarette papers, tin Havelock tobacco, small packet MacRobertsons chocolate, 1 packet playing cards, 1 packet envelopes & writing paper (combines).

The dining hall was artistically decorated with palms & the Australian flag, & the main corridors leading to the wards were also resplendent with bunting & greenery. The piazza also was a scene of greenery appropriately decorated. In fact, everything was in perfect harmony with the occasion spirit of the day.

The tables at dinner were loaded with good things, & at each man’s place a small card was laid on which was printed "The Australian Branch British Red Cross wishes you a merry Xmas & a happy New Year & a speedy recovery".

Major Norton, O.C. spoke a few words & wished the men the Seasons greetings & every happiness & good cheer. He stated that nothing had pleased him more than to have had the opportunity of sleeping under the same roof with such a splendid lot of fellows.

Three cheers were called for the Major & heartily given. A "jolly good fellow" was also given, to which the Major suitably responded. God Save the King was sung with all standing, the men drinking their King’s health with orange ale, lemonade, & ginger beer.

During the morning I visited service at St. Pauls Church of England, Helouan, & thoroughly enjoyed it.

Sunday 26th Decr 1915

Church Service in morning in "Salle-a-manger".

Monday 27th Decr 1915

Tuesday 28th Decr 1915

Dr orders massage treatment. Still no letters.

Wednesday 29th Decr. 1915

Sent Mab 2 Post Cards. Massage doing me good.


[Page 112]

Thursday 30 Decr 1915

Sent Mab letter.

Friday 31st Decr 1915

Quiet New Years Eve. Capital impromptu concert on piazza.

Saturday 1st Jan 1916

New Year’s Day. Very quiet. Sent Mab "billet doux" & letter.

Sunday 2nd Jan 1916

Attended Church Parade. Some "straight" talk from Chaplain.

Monday 3rd Jan. 1916

To be discharged tomorrow under "A" class to Gizeh. Sent Mab & Mum letter each notifying discharge. Raining heavily & frequently.

Tuesday 4th Jan 1916

Sent with 150 others to Gizeh, via Bab-el-louk. Gizeh, on the bank of the Nile, composed of 2 camps, 1st & 2nd Aus. Divs. respectively.

Wednesday 5th Jan 1916

Have attended about 12 parades.

Thursday 6th Jan 1916

Friday 7th Jan 1916

Saturday 8th Jan 1916

Sunday 9th Jan 1916


[Page 113]

Monday 10th Jan 1916

No food served in this detestable hole for weeks.

Tuesday 11th Jan. 1916

In Cairo again, with usual result.

Wednesday 12th Jan 1916

Volunteers called for Special Guard & decided to go.

Arrived at Fraz (15 of us in all Sgt & 2 Cpls) about three miles out of Cairo at about 2 pm Huge railway siding containing immense coal stacks & oil stores.

Am not feeling too well, but appreciate the chance of getting away from Gizeh. Difficulties with rations owing to their not having been forwarded. Men hungry & cold. Also blankets have failed to turn up. Corporal of night picket on oil shed. Very cold, but Soudanese watchmen, quaint fellows, help us with a big coal fire which we sit round


[Page 114]

& chat together, the Soudanese chattering at us & at one another, & we all forget our temporary difficulties. Blankets arrived about 11 o’clock.

Thursday 13th Jan 1916

Still little tucker. We live on Arabic bread, & roots from the surrounding gardens. Sgt. decides to go to Cairo, & arrives back about 4 p.m. with bread, meat & vegetables & we are saved.

Friday 14th Jan 1916

Weather very cold. We are now being catered for by a Dago & everything is O.K. Beginning to feel my old self again.

Saturday 15th Jan 1916

Paid £3. Went to Cairo. Came home on trolley from Cairo Station, pushed by two natives who ran along the rails. Asst. Station Master accompanied me. The ride was quite enjoyable though a little cold. Bright moonlight, calm, with violet sky common to Egyptian nights.

Gave the natives 5 piastres between them.

Sunday 16th Jan 1916

Left for Cairo at 10 am via Shubra village. Pleasant train ride into Cairo.

Monday 17th Jan 1916

Uneventful. Weather cold & damp with occasional showers.

Tuesday 18th Jan 1916

Dull, grey damp day. Sharp shower early morn.

Wednesday 19th Jan 1916

Relieved Main Cairo Station Guard during afternoon. Posted 9 per shift also 1 am

Thursday 20th Jan 1916

New position a sinecure, excellent food & plenty of spare time & leave. Reasonable Officer & Sgts in charge. Sgt Major Robins, Senior N.C.O. a good fellow.


[Page 115]

Friday 21 st Jan 1916

In town. A general run round.

Saturday 22nd Jan 1916

Usual routine. No letters yet. Now provided with palm tree beds in large room for NCO’s only.

Sunday 23rd Jan 1916

Chicken for dinner. Capital catering. Am having a rattling good time.

Monday 24th Jan 1916

Paid 30/-. No back pay allowed. Egyptian rates only. Kursaal at night with Sgt. Jones. A good show.

Tuesday 25th Jan 1916

A routine day. Nothing unusual.

Wednesday 26th Jan 1916

A routine day.

Thursday 27th Jan 1916

Wrote Mab a letter at Y.M.C.A.

Friday 28th Jan 1916

No charge formulated & allowed to return to Guard. A narrow squeak.

Saturday 29th Jan 1916

Quiet day.

Sunday 30th Jan 1916

Quiet day, usual routine, in town.

Monday 31st Jan 1916

Paid £1. In town. Rumour has it that 2 NCO’s are to be returned to Gizeh. Am wondering what is in the wind.

Tuesday 1st Feb 1916

Nothing fresh. Am awaiting developments. Hope to get to Ishmailia tomorrow for letters. Day on duty.


[Page 116]

Wednesday 2nd Feb 1916

Could not visit Ishmailia. Returned to Ghizeh with Sgt Hales,

Thursday 3rd Feb 1916

Usual Ghizeh routine. In Cairo. At "Majestic" Pictures at night. "Amour", "Amour" "Amour" - not sentimental stuff.

Friday 4th Feb 1916

Zoological Gardens Picquet. Interesting job. Magnificent palatial gardens & a great variety of animals, birds etc. Monkeys, Giraffes, & lions most interesting. Egyptian band, composed of reformatory boys, discorded music during afternoon.

Saturday 5th Feb 1916

Marched to Zeitoun, full marching order, with about 500 others. About 10 miles. Ended up with blistered toe & sore feet generally. Placed in "A" details.

Sunday 6th Feb 1916

Quiet day. Early morning parade 7 o’clock. Later than Ghizeh. 10 o’clock parade to Church. No afternoon parade. Attended Church parade during afternoon at Y.M.C.A. at night which I thoroughly enjoyed.

Monday 7th Feb 1916

Nothing unusual. Route march during morning.

Wrote Mab a letter at YMCA hut.

Tuesday 8th Feb. 1916

Quiet day.

Wednesday 9th Feb 1916

Paid 30/-.

Thursday 10th Feb. 1916

Posted letters to Mab, Grace & Mum.

Friday 11th Feb 1916

Usual routine. Paraded sick. Back again troubling me. Dr. orders iodine painting.

Saturday 12th Feb 1916

Quiet day. Not feeling well.


[Page 117]

Sunday 13th Feb 1916

Back very bad & feeling weak generally.

Monday 14th Feb 1916

Still no letters. Camp life is dull & monotonous, & the continued absence of news from home makes it a thousand times more wearisome.

Tuesday 15th Feb 1916

A routine day. Having back & side "cupped" – quite a novel operation – a glass, methylated spirits & a match.

Attended YMCA concert at night – a very good show.

Wednesday 16th Feb 1916

Posted letter to Sgt Wakelin asking if any letters had been received at N.Z. Hqrs. Short rations & little water.

Thursday 17th Feb 1916

Wrote Mabel & Grace. Posted letters at YMCA

Friday 18th Feb 1916

Wrote Dad. Received letters from Mum & Grace. Phil Niting who is attending Signalling School, brought them down with him from Ismailia.

Saturday 19th Feb 1916

Had a restless night with attacks of diarrhoea. Woke with a splitting headache & am feeling generally weak & full of lassitude.

Sunday 20th Feb 1916

Left Zeitoun for No 1 General. Sent from there to No 3 Auxiliary Hospital.

Monday 21st Feb 1916

Ordered X Ray examination by Dr. lower spine.

Tuesday 22nd Feb 1916

Underwent X Ray at Palace Hospital. Spine intact – no injury & no disease. Dr at No 3 says complaint not serious – slight rheumatism.


[Page 118]

Wednesday 23rd Feb 1916

Usual routine day. Taking aspirin.

Thursday 24th Feb 1916

Quiet & uneventful day. Much improved.

Friday 25th Feb. 1916

Feeling generally better.

Saturday 26th Feb 1916

Still no news. No letters at Zeitoun & no ack. from Sgt. Wakelin. I’m thoroughly disheartened. But this absence of letters seems to be a general complaint for officers as well as men are suffering in this respect.

Sunday 27th Feb 1916

Quiet day. Church Parade with "domain orator" parson. "It is very difficult for a rich man to enter the Kingdom of heaven."

Monday 28th Feb 1916

Paid 10/-. Went to Cairo with Woods, 19th M. Gunner.

Tuesday 29th Feb 1916

In town. Slept at Ghezueh Palace Hospital.

Wednesday 1st Mch 1916

Thursday 2nd Mch 1916

Friday 3rd Mch 1916

Saturday 4th Mch 1916

Hot & sultry weather. "Khamsheen" conditions – dusty all day. Have been classed "L.O.C." which means no further "active service".

Rumours of complete evacuation of troops on Canal, either to France, Mesopotamia or Bombay.

There must be some big movement in embryo for most of the hospitals are being cleared as much as possible of their patients, & the men if fit discharged to the Base.

Sunday 5th Mch 1916

Big crowd of men to leave tomorrow for Ismailia – in fact – all except L.O.C. & "A" Special classes. Something is in the wind.

Monday 6th Mch 1916

Had note from Wakelin that he had sent large


[Page 119]

quantity of my mail to 2nd Aus. Div. Thank God for this bit of news. I have now something to work upon & perhaps I shall be able to get some mail in a few days.

Tuesday 7th Mch 1916

Classed "L.O.C." Light Duty.

Posted Mab letter that mail had been send to 2nd Aust. Div. & that I was making inquiries regarding it.

Wednesday 8th Mch 1916

Inquired at Intermediate Base re cable & could get no definite advice as to its despatch.

Thursday 9th Mch 1916

Hot & dusty. Usual routine day. Cpl of prison guard. Two men in handcuffs.

Friday 10th Mch 1916

Paid £5. Sent setters to Sgt. Wakelin, Base P.O. Alexandria & 2nd Aust Div Hqrs re mail. Told at I.B. that cable was sent on 29th Feby.

Saturday 11th Mch 1916

Kursaal at night.

Sunday 12th Mch. 1916

Attended Church Parade 1st Aus. Division. In town with Cpl Stevenson.

Monday 13th Mch 1916

Finish money. In town again.

Tuesday 14th Mch. 1916

Called at YMCA & received following cable from Mabel, "Boy everybody well". How relieved I am & how glad. What a load

Wednesday 15th Mch 1916

Feeling very seedy. Pains in my right groin & little strength in legs. General lassitude.

Thursday 16th Mch 16

A little improved. Tucker bad. Fat bacon for breakfast, bread &cheese & jam for dinner, fatty & watery stew for tea. This is the daily menu, My stomach recoils against it.

Attended Countess de Lavison’s Concert at YMCA hut. Very enjoyable evening.


[Page 120]

Friday 17th Mch 1916

Dusty & hot. Unbearable. Attended Kursaal at night. Egyptian opera by College Students. Poor acting.

Saturday 18th Mch 1916

"Khamsheen" all day. Huge clouds of sand, dust & other debris enveloped the camp all day long – the wind blew with hurricane force & was spitefully but played with our tents, mess huts, etc.

Applied for duty as Shorthandwriter & Typist at Base Office.

Sunday 19th Mch 1916

Heavy rain storm early hours. Many men, without tents, woke up like half-drowned rats. Much grumbling & growling.

Sunday dinner - tea, cheese & jam & bread.

Monday 20th Mch 1916

Routine day. Base band played us down to Ghezueh/Ghizeh Gardens & back.

Tuesday 21st Mch 1916

Reported at 10 am at Agricultural Hall in reference to position as Shorthandwriter. Sent from there to AIF Hqrs where I was detailed for duty in Correspondence Room, Hqrs Staff. No mention made as to extra rank.

Wednesday 22nd Mch 1916

Heavy day’s work. Commenced at 7.30 am & finished 6 pm Billeted in large house, (ex Premier’s). Mess allowance 3/- day. Wet canteen. Credit given. I appreciate the change of conditions.

Received PC, from Alexandria that matter of mail was being looked into.

Sent Mab 7 P.C’s & Mum (1) Grace (2).

Thursday 23rd Mch 1916

Another heavy day. Have met Noel Hueston who is on the Staff (of Kogarah). Informs me that his brother Clyde had shot himself.

Friday 24th Mch 1916

Inoculated for para typhoid.

Saturday 25th Mch 1916

Paid £5. "Went mad".

Sunday 26th Mch 1916

Pocket book, Paybook, photos etc. stolen. Also £2.10.0. Also references.


[Page 121]

Monday 27th Mch 1916

Bad day, heavy work.

Tuesday 28th Mch 1916

Applied for duplicate pay book. Hot day & plenty to do. Beginning to feel the need for lighter clothing – shorts etc.

Posted Mab letter informing her of my loss of pay book & asking her to send photos of the kiddies.

Wednesday 29th Mch 1916

Opening of Anzac Hostel in Egyptian Bourse at 7 pm. Declared open by General Godley in absence of Gen. Birdwood. A capital concert – including Countess Lisandra, Countess Tullibardine, Tom Burrows, Mrs Hugh Buckland ("My Hero"). It is said in regard to Countess Lisandra’s (of the Kursaal) performance that the Bishop of Jerusalem has written that he took umbrage at "the nude lady", whereas Col. Anderson, QMG, replied: "My dear Lord Bishop if you spent a few years in Australia, it would not only lessen the size of your hat but increase the capacity of your soul". Whereupon I suppose the Bishop went mad.

Issued with duplicate pay book to date from 27th Mch.

Thursday 30th Mch 1916

Very hot & heavy day.

Friday 31st Mch 1916

[Sentences of shorthand not transcribed.]

Saturday 1st April 1916

Usual day.

Sunday 2nd April 1916

Usual day. Witnessed Sultan’s guard change over at Palace at 11 am Very impressive, band etc.

Monday 3rd April 1916

Went to No. 3 A.G.H. for glasses. Told to report again tomorrow.

Tuesday 4th April 1916

Reported again for glasses, but told come again Friday. [Sentence of shorthand not transcribed.]


[Page 122]

A La Mr. Richards.

Hold your heads up & look something.
Damn it, move yourself for the honor of the British Army.
Don’t look like Corps tourists.
If you’ve been out the night before, don’t display it on parade.


[Page 123]

[Paragraph of shorthand not transcribed.]

Gen. Sir Ian Hamilton, G.C.B., DSO, ADC, Commanding Med. Exped. Force.
Lt. Gen. Sir W.R. Birdwood, KCSI, KCMG, CB, CIE, DSO, Comdg Aust. & New Zealand Army Corps
Maj. Gen. Sir AJ Godley, KCMG, CB, Cmdg. NZ & Aust. Division.
Brig-Gen HG Chauvel, CMG, Cmdg 1st L.H. brigade (Now Lieutenant-General).


[Page 124]

[List of items and names crossed through.]

When in a smile her baby lips were parted,
The sun shone in my heart, life grew less grey
And like some careless boy I’d feel light hearted
The livelong day.

As thrills the harp beneath the minstrel’s fingers
Her little hands upon my heart-strings did play ed
And when upon my lips her pure kiss lingered
Night turned to day.


[Page 125]

No. 35
Pte. Oscar Rhodes,
Signaller,
A Co., 20th Battalion,
5th Brigade
A.I.E.F.

Mother’s Address: 8 Johnston St., Annandale, Sydney, N.S.W.

Wife’s Address : "Doncaster" Fourth Av., Campsie, Sydney, N.S.W.

Bastille – misspelt as Bastile
Cape Guardafui - misspelt as Cape Gardifue
Denos – possibly Delos
Ghezueh Palace Hospital – possibly Ghezira Palace Hospital
Giza – sometimes spelt as Gizeh, Ghizeh, Ghezueh
Gomorrah – misspelt as Gomohrn
Helouan – possibly Helwan
Ismailia – sometimes spelt Ishmalia
Middelkerke – misspelt as Middlekerke
Semendria/Smederevo
Serbia sometimes spelt as Servia
Sirra – possibly Siros
Stry – possibly Stryy, Ukraine
Vilna/Vilnius
Vitz ridge – possibly Vimy Ridge
Wildron’s Hill – possibly Walden’s Point

Feret ad astra virtus – Virtue will bear us to the skies
Mirabile dictu – Wonderful to relate

Scirocco – Mediterranean wind that comes from the Sahara and reaches hurricane speeds in North Africa and Southern Europe
Khamsin or Khamsheen –a hot violent wind in the desert

A.A.G. – Assistant Adjutant-General
D.A.C.G. – Deputy Assistant Commissary General
G.S.O. – General Staff Officer
K of K – Kitchener of Khartoum
N.Z.M.R. Bde. – New Zealand Mounted Rifles Brigade

[Transcribed by Judy Gimbert and Lynne Frizell for the State Library of New South Wales]
