Jan 8th Fri. Phy Ex
Read a "Son of Erin" by Annie Swan, delighted with the story. Read "How he Died" and other poems by Fariel an Aus ? poet. "How he died" is a beautiful piece.
Men appointed to their duties in the hospital.
Jan 9th Sat. Phy Ex. Kit Insp.
Read J. K. Lawson's Songs and Humorous Verses. Very Good. Learned from some of the chaps who know him that he is a confirmed drunkcaard.
Experiencing very rough seas just now. We are in the Red Sea. Had a very instructive lecture "Hygiene on the March".
Jan 10th Sun. G.
Sighted the Daidalus Lighthouse. It is built on a rock which is hidden by the sea. Three P O Steamers are said to have been sunk on this hidden rock before the lighthouse was built. The Keepers who were on it; went mad, it is so lonely. To obviate this a jetty was built so that the Keepers would be able to take exercises. One could see the jetty, but very indistinctly. Sighted land about dinner time. 275 miles to-day
Read Dr. Johnston and his Circle in M. K. Series. Very interesting. Very stormy all last night. Had to wear my overcoat whilst on guard. Rather a contrast to which I had previously thought and heard of the Red Sea.
Whiled away the weary hours on guard by studying the stars. Saw


 the Plough, Cassiopia, [indecipherable] Plieades, Orion, the night was so beautifully clear and starry.
Jan 11th Mon.
 On going up on deck this morning, I witnessed a very pretty scene as the sun was rising just over the mountains on the Arabian side of the Gulf of Suez. The P O steamer Malura passed close by us this morning. There is great jubilation amongst the troops as they expect to get letters by the mail which the Malura is carrying to Port Said.
 Reached Port Suez 8 p.m.
 The Suez Canal.
 The town of Suez lies several miles from the entrance to the canal. A narrow strip of land from the dock forms a road across the lagoon.
After making preparations such as fixing the searchlights over the bows of the steamers, etc. we enter the canal, passing the large first station which has a statue of De Lesseps, its famous engineer.
The sandy desert stretches as far as the eye can reach. It is very peculiar and forms the main characteristic of the scenery along this wonderful and highly interesting engineering feat.
With a length of 87 miles, 20 yds in width and a depth of 25 ft the canal has 13 signalling stations all connected by telegraph and announcing the coming and going of the various steamers.
 

 At these stations, sidings made by widening the canal are placed so that vessels can pass one another. One of the vessels has to moor to the side till the other passes. Ships of War and Mail Boats fly the privilege flag and are allowed to pass first (a white P on a blue ground). Various signals to regulate the traffic are in operation. Speed limit 6 miles per hour.
The first stage of interest after leaving Suez with Mt. Attaka as a back ground (2700 ft) is the Bitter Lake in which the speed is increased to full beteen the stations Serapeum and Toussoum. 
Then Ismailia on Lake Timsah which lies midway of the length of the canal. 
A narrow gauge railway runs from Ismailia along the bank to Port Said. A railway also runs to Cairo.
After 17 miles of narrow canal and high sandy banks at Kantasah the famous crossing of the caravans and pilgrims to Mecca is passed. (Mecca is about half way down the Red Sea on the Arabian side.) Lake Minzalah with its flamingoes and wild fowl are located on the west side and passengers on ships will often on occasion see a mirage. Cairo has frequently been seen pictured upside down in the air, so also have ships etc.
The run through the canal takes from 15 to 17 hours.