June 5th Sat.
Definate word that Mena House is to be closed on Monday the 7th.
June 6th Sun.
General Maxwell and his wife visited Mena to-day.
June 7th Mon.
Everything belonging to No. 2 was cleared out to-day. By mid day the place was empty. Spent the afternoon in the swimming pond.
Bid farewell to Mena at 8 o'clock to-night.
June 8th Tues.
Had to sleep under a tree during the night.
June 9th Wed
Fixing up a new ward.
June 10th Thurs.
N.D. Special Case.
200 Tommies arrived from the Dardanelles, wounded.
June 11th 12th Sat.
Drove to the Citadel with M. Had a look through the Mohammed Ali Mosque. From the Citadel we drove through narrow streets to the Bazaar district called "The Mouski". Visiting the Bazaar district was the most interesting and the most fascinating pastime that I had in Egypt.
The Rue Mouski seems to be the place where the natives do their commercial business. It is not a very broad street, and during the day is very busy. The men passing too and fro, usually in gaudily coloured and flowing robes, and wearing on their heads the favurite head gear, the Red Tarboosh or the Turban gives 


 the place a picturesque Eastern appearance.
All along the street one finds the shop, or a better term for them, stalls are open to the street. One rarely finds a window in the shops. They have a very leisurely way of doing business. The people will sit for hours bargaining for articles.
One often comes across the shop keeper and others seated inside the shop conversing with one another in what seems to be a very brotherly fashion. This seems to be amongst the Egyptians, a favourite pastime and a favourite means of doing business.
It is when I get into the side streets or to be more correct alleys that I find the greatest pleasure and fascination. 
In spite of the unkempt roadway and the musty smell one seems to forget these things and look on the new scene, away from the heat of the burning sun, with great pleasure and a feeling that one has been transported to a new and enchanted world.
Beautifully engraved Brass and Copper ware are favourite articles of merchandize with the natives. These ornaments, Coffee Sets, Plates, Rose Bowls, Vases, Obelisks, Candlesticks etc. are beautifully engraved by hand. This process one see often being done by the native workmen outside the shop door and it is marvellous how expert they become. Even little boys about ten years of age turn out beautiful work.


 The things depicted by the engraving are usually inscriptions from the Koran, or representations of Ancient Egyptian monuments like the Pyramids, and the Sphinx and also stories of Ancient Egyptian History.
As one makes their way up the alley one feels as if the upper stories of the buildings are going to tumble down on one's head. One reflects that they have stood that way for ages and we go on our way with a feeling of relief. Next we see gaily coloured slippers which look very attractive and quaint. Inside the recesses one sees the shoemaker making these slippers.
Strolling along to the next shop we find cases of precious stones, some imitation, but most are real; so the shop keeper says! However they look very well indeed, some exceptionally beautiful. Other cases contain ancient Egyptian Ornaments, Scarabs, Rings, etc. Passing on a little further we come to the Silk warehouse. There we find some lovely silk Shawls, Wrapps and beautiful embroidery. A favourite article to be found in these kind of places is the native tent work. This usually takes the form of pieces of cloth sewn on to a piece of stout canvass so as to form the figure of one of the many Egyptian gods. To look at these tent work figures from a short distance they look exceedingly pretty.


 To wander round these various places one comes across all kinds of oddities in brass work, embroidery, carving in woodwork etc.
Workmen at their various occupation of repairing carpets, polishing precious stones, embroidery, making tarboosh, walking sticks, form a very interesting and instructive part to a visit here. These things are mostly hand done.
The above scenes are repeated along the narrow alley. We meet some interesting personages in these places. The waterman with his leather water bag over his back comes down the alley distributing water to those who wish a drink or may be scattering the water on the ground to "lay the stone". He is a pretty poor man and we learned that some of the business men probably had paid him for his bag of water thus the reason for his lavish manner of distributing the water.
We meet women carrying on their heads cage-like baskets containing rabbits or poultry which are for sale.
One also finds that their are men who have travelled a good bit to be found amongst these shop keepers. We asked one of the salesmen why it was that they put a price on a certain article and after bargaining for a long time he seems quite please to accept half the first price