/9
Sailly
5/4/16
Every room in the houses we are billeted in is full of pictures of sacred hearts and crucifixes. On most roofs a cross is let in in glazed tiles and the date as well. Some houses have thatched roofs and look very pretty just like old pictures. After leaving Merville we passed what was evidently a munition factory separated from us by a fair broad brook. Upon the grass on the opposite bank buxom wenches indulged in amorous sport and suggestive invitation to our men. "By G-" say one "I wouldn't mind being among them". "Yes" said the other "but you x lose it swimming over".
The men had dreadfully sore and tender feet but stuck it out well the roads here takes the skin off and we wanted more hardening. Saluting of the AIF is splendid and we struck some smart Tommies. My arm got quite tired returning salutes. The fellows chip the tommies slinging off in their own broad way "My, choom, ?ev yer got a Woodbine?".
We passed an aeroplane hanger all mottled with disguising paint and from then onwards the rattle of guns was incessant. Passed a well packed cemetery. Public notices in the street warn the inhabitants against gas and there are alarm posts.
Reaching Sailly we cleared the town and billeting among farmhouses. Everything very poor and rough owing to ravages of war only lower class staying about. The roads here are marvellously good and all day we have been marching upon roads as good as am Australian suburban street. All glad to reach billet and get boots off the sore chafed feet. We are billeted in a pretty spot outside the town but the house is squalid and bare and the farmyard stinks.
Nearly every house along the main roads is an Estaminet and in the windows are exposed for sale lollies and various food stuffs. "Debitant de Bouissons" is another frequent sign but "Estaminet" is the most prevalent. In the small enclosure in rear of this place standing out among bare trees is a fine pear tree in full blossom, indeed, this whole place reminds me of an orchard. The flares from German trenches can be plainly seen around us like a horseshoe.