Erquinghem-Lys
20/5/16
Fatigue as usual left early and after breakfast in bed at 5.30 I went to sleep again. Spent morning round the place in the delightful sun and spread canvas over the billet trenches. The enemy shelled our trenches at the bask tearing a very large crater with one extra big shell. A good many were duds. At 3.30 fell all hands in for rapid loading and there was great slackness in No. 9 for which gave them extra drill and roused Craner up. Niel put the acid on but really do not wonder at some grumbling for they are overworked.
After tea the night fatigue left for Gris Pot. Went down to Halfway House after dark passing rumbling transport everywhere. Bombardments have wrecked the whole place round the "clink" and shattered the place to pieces. One place has had a notice put up "Shaving Haircutting". It was blown to pieces yesterday and another notice runs "Business as usual during alterations". Reaching the old house I found all No. 12 lying about having taken the wrong road in the dark. Took them along to Gris Pot and put them on the job there, digging trenches by the fitful light of German flares.
Returned to La Armee which has also been well knocked about and climbed up the dark stairs of an Estaminet to a bedroom occupied by Mackay who was Bde. Advanced line Officer. The old man and his daughter still occupy this place which is but 2000f from firing line and already half wrecked. Just opposite is another place also nearly in ruins which is still inhabited for a home by a woman children.
Sentries challenging along road. Came back across Emergency Road and passed through Erquing again the church chime pealing very softly and the hour striking. The post office and Mairie still are quiet intact and mark the business centre of the village. The whole place at this hour 11 pm was almost quite deserted and our long walk (Smith, my batman came as my orderly) was only broken after this by the challenges of sentries. Our fellows have to this long march 6 hours pick and shovel work on top of it.
Bed 11.45