Fleurbaix
8/4/16
Still feeling very unwell and rotten, so secured from M.O. four No. 13's. Rode up to Batt. H.Q. at 0830 and got few trivial orders. The office is situated in a good building near the Church. Curnoir? horse fell with him and sprained his ankle. Went down to Elbow Farm and found the billets there riddled with shells and all concerned living in dugouts. Trenches there of the stereotyped design and very damp ? in the big communications sap there was two feet of clear running water.
Allocated the platoons there stations right up the Tin Barn Avenue also. Along the road canvas screens are erected to hide movement from the enemy's eyes. After lunch went into H.Q. again and found the cobblestones very dangerous for the horse. With C.O. and the others went round the whole regimental billet area and coming down our own way the enemy opened up a heavy bombardment of a battery of ours. Sat down by road and watched the shells tearing into the earth about 200 yards off and sending dirt and debris yards up in the air. An occasional "dud" struck yards dully and shook the earth. Further down our artillery have crows nest observation post up the trees.
Later in the afternoon the enemy returned the shelling of the battery and our guns replied. The shells came in very thick and we watched from the windows. Hedges and fields were being smashed about and we thanked our stars they did not shorten their range a little and get us. Windows rattling with concussion. Rather nerve racking after being away from it for a few months. Aeroplane up spotting, our sentries gave whistle signals for taking cover when enemy plane appears. 
All officers of the company messing here together with Skenes as mess Secretary. After tea settled down in a cosy room with a book in front of fire and but for machine gun rattle might well have imagined ourselves at home instead of only about a mile in rear of the trenches. They certainly take no risks keeping their flares up continuously. 
Turning in early hope to feel more fit tomorrow. Bennett No. 10 platoon lost his voice on the Peninsula and had been attending the doctor in search of relief ever since. Got drunk the other day and can now speak stentivianly again.