Ligne
31/3/16
Early parade physical drill in meadows ajoining the billets, rather foggy and rain and heavy dew drops running of the bare branches of trees and hedges. The ground running with moisture and little rills tinkling along crossing the roads and winding in among the farmhouses. Ploughmen driving their horses to work, - dress much favoured ? peak cap and corduroy clothes with small gaiters. Our barmen preparing good meals buying the provisions from the people of the house and also using the army ration which is good.
Madam went to market at Aire putting on a small hat and driving in, in a small cart looking very nice. In the leafy lanes we carried on with rifle exercises and close order drill until lunch. Rather difficult owing to cultivation to find sufficient ground to manoeuvre. Found a good grassy paddock all dry with daises and primroses to say nothing of buttercups violets but the approach is bad owing to a small brook. 
After lunch received orders to rendezvous at 1300 at Roquefort for inspection by Lord Kitchener. Dress full marching order. Fell in hurriedly set off. Breathless orderly arrived "no packs to be worn". Dropped packs and set off again. Got as far as half way and a cyclist arrived "greatcoats will be worn ? equipment outside". Trudged back a mile and got coats. Set off again and on reaching destination was told to put officers equipment under greatcoat! An instance of contradiction orders.
Set off and marched to Aire, a fair sized prosperous town and after much manoeuvring lined a street ? 21st on one side and ourselves upon the other. Stood at the slope for a long time and the men felt the fatigue ? one took a fit and another fainted. I had charge of about 450 men and they gave a good present in the general salute. Was disappointed in Lo/K. His face was bloated and the opens of his nose and cheeks stand out terribly as upon the face of a heavy drinker. His eyes are bleary. He is a fine big man and his service tunic was ablaze with war ribbons. General Monro accompanied him ? and a man with a limp. 
We marched past afterwards in fours and to my disgust, missed the salute being past the point without knowing about 5 paces. Fortunately Mackay used his head and gave the order whipped round saluted but too late to catch his eye. Cursed myself for being caught napping. The 5th Bge looked small without greatcoats. The 23rd 24th are in quarantine owing to Ayphus. 
Tomorrow I go to the trenches on transport work and the Battalion goes in on the 10th. Pretty open country passed on the line of march the clean good looking people are much respected by our men. Reached home about 1700, tea and paid out some more pay. We are luckier than some in our billets, some are with poor refugees. Sign on shop "J.C. Debitant A la reunion de Crasserves".
Bed early.