Erquinghem-Lys
16/5/16
A fine spring day, and an easy day for the men, digging trenches in the ploughed field near the billet. Aeroplanes fairly active and some big shells pitched in not so far from us. Our big observation was up close by and the observer could be plainly seen in the basket. Skylarks mounting in circles with a "banking" movement sing all day.
Commencing at noon I made a searching inspection of every man looking at ammunition, rations and alarm order generally. Curnow returned about tea time and after tea Thomsen had a terrible encounter with the jaw which has been very obtusive of late. A fine batch of letters arrived. Wiring party out as usual tonight.
17/5/16
A lovely day again. No day fatigues so carried on in billets. Wonderful where the men to :-
Coy. strength 5 Off ? 224 Men ? 229 Total
MPs ? 2 Light Duties - 4
HQ Cook ? 1
Bomb school cook ? 1 ? Exempt - 1
Batt. Bombers ? 8 ? Coy drivers - 4
Salvage man ? 1 ? on leave - 1
Bde Sketcher ? 1 ?on leave - 1
Bde Typist ? 1
Reg Eng fatigue ? 4 ? Duties - 69
Signallers ? 9 ? night barbed wire men - 55
Scouts ? 4 ? Available for drill ? 105 -
MGS (Vickers) ? 1 - 229
MGS (Lewis) ? 4
Batt orderly ? 1
QMs Storemen ? 2
QMS Clerk ? 2
Cooks, fatigue ? 5
Sanitary Fat. ? 2
Picquet ? 7
Batman ? 1
Orderly NCO ? 1
Sick in bed ? 1
Hospital ? 2
On days when we are the Company on duty these figures are larger. Besides these men we have others told off as platoon bombers, Intelligence men, gas men:
Have also 25 men detailed today to attend a concert by Miss Ann Ashwell and 50 to go for a bath. Went for a bath myself after lunch at the laundry and also save the AMC dentist who said nothing needed doing to my mouth.
Inspected unserviceable kit and at had a complaint re rations from No 9 platoon which was looked into. The Army rations cuts things very fine and men feel it short. Certainly at times it is not enough for pick and shovel work particularly when they go substitute currants for jam. 
Word received gas attack the other side of Armentieres took precaution.