Lille Post
12/6/16
Got up at 7 am and after breakfast went up towards the firing line having a look round. There is high ground wooded in places behind the German lines from which we must be constantly under observation. Davey got sniped and I passed the stretcher bearers taking him along. The bullet went through just above his knee and left a jagged wound. Pedley was along later in the day and told me of an officer who had 5 bullets hit his steel helmet and none went through.
Went down to Batt. H.Q. during afternoon. Stood to arms at 8.15 until 8.45. Cold and raw. All day there has been continuous heavy cannonading at Ypres, probably the Canadians counterattacking.
13/6/16
All night long the roar of cannon was continuous rising to terrific violence just before dawn 2 am and then continuing in one steady rumble. A big battle is evidently in progress at Ypres and we are very likely trying to retake the lost trenches there. Just after midnight our Army Corps carried out a raid on trenches opposite Fleurbaix under cover of an intense bombardment. Altogether a very active noisy night.
Stood to arms in rain at 2.15 until 3.15 when it was broad daylight. Men slow in turning out on to their alarm posts, the dugouts being very crowded. A good many got wet owing the rain coming in on them. Our trenches run through a building under which it is pitch dark. Loopholes cut flush with the ground through the foundations and the weight of the superstructure is taken on beams and stays. One man per yard here and as black as pitch.
No fatigue today so far. Went round with Sergeant Trevena inspecting the post and mapped out enough cleaning up to keep him going with 100 men all the afternoon. Wet and dreary, there is mud everywhere and most of the men are rolled up in their blankets reading writing. At midday the bombardment of Ypres slackened down to an occasional heavy gun boom. Our raid by 5th Bde last night is said to have resulted in 50 Germans being killed 6 (including an officer captured) also some m.g's trench mortars. Our loss 1 officer killed 1 man killed. 
Furphy about