mix. We could not understand this at all. They did not threaten us if we did not answer the questions correctly.
They were particularly anxious to know how many torpedoes we carried and where we used to go at night time while in the sea of Marmora.
In the afternoon of the 2nd May we were served out with a Turkish sailors uniform each, a red fezz and towel and pair of sox. The soldiers uniforms had to be returned but we were allowed to keep the overcoats. In the evening a Turkish officer and two N.C.O's came in with a French interpreter who had been captured on the Peninsular the day before. He could speak English and Turkish fairly well, we were indeed pleased to see him as we could not ask for anything before this. They took our names in full, also our Father's name in full, whether dead or alive. What for remained a mystery.
The Frenchman gave us the Turkish words for bread, cheese, tea and water. We wrote these words on the wall so that we should not forget them. This was our first insight great progress into the Turkish language. After this we were served with the evening meal, the same as the day before. We were since told that we were getting the same food as the Turkish soldiers, if so I am sorry for them. One meal at 6 in the morning and nothing till 6 in the evening and then not fit food for a human being.
Since we arrived we had been asking for a little exercise on the parade ground, but could get no satisfaction. On the morning of the 3rd we had our usual meal and during the forenoon our friend the interpreter was allowed in to see us, and he said they would allow him out in the city with a sentry, and he would get us anything we were in immediate need of: for as some of us had a few shillings, we had saved from the boat wreck, we we ordered some toothbrushes, soap, cheese, lettuces etc. any other eatables he might be able to procure.
About 11 a.m. we were allowed out in the garden overlooking the harbour for an hours exercise. This It was a treat to be out in the sun after being cooped up in a badly lighted room. In the evening we were shaved and had our hair practically shaved off after which we had the usual evening meal and lay down to sleep.
On the morning of the 4th we were taken out into the large parade ground and lined up against one of the big buildings to have our photograph taken. Our officers were also brought out to be photographed with us. We were taken with our fezzes off and a Turkish sentry either side of us, we looked proper criminals with our hair cut so short.
During this operation a great crowd of Turkish