marching very slowly the sentry tried to hurry us but it was no use. He made a rush at one of us threatening to use the butt of his rifle. This happened in the heart of the town just as we were opposite a hospital where there was a lot of wounded soldiers. There were also a number of soldiers standing on the side of the road. Had the sentry struck this man it may have been the means of a number of us losing our lives as it would take very little to turn these people against us. When we returned in the evening he was reported to the Officer who said he would not be sent in charge of us again, but needless to say he was. Afterwards this affair was the cause of a considerable amount of trouble for the man who was threatened wrote away about the affair and of course the letter was stopped by the Censor and reported to Head-quarters and of course enquiries were made into the affair.
August 22nd our officers sent us up 100 piastres to buy a football so after this we played football every day August 25th a case of fever broke out in the Russian quarters. The result is we are put in quarantine for fourteen days. We get provisions from the town by the officers servants. They pass the stuff over the fence to us. Two fumigators are brought into the yard and we put our clothes through. The rooms are fumigated by burning sulphur. After this we whitewash all the walls.
August 28th. The Turkish papers give s their account of General Hamilton's report on the Dardanelles. Of course a pack of lies. They give our casualties as 7000 killed and 28000 wounded and 10000 missing. September 1st been prisoner four months and still no signs of peace. The report in the Turkish papers today says the English papers say the English will be through the Dardanelles
by 15th October, but the Germans would be there to help the Turks before that date. Our money is running short and still nothing forthcoming from the Ambassadors promise. We receive a letter from our Captain saying that we could expect a speedy release as Bulgaria would be joining in on our side within a few days. We see by the papers that things are bad for Europeans in the Capital no one being allowed out after sunset without a guard. We receive news from our officers telling us that we need not expect any more money as the Turks are putting obstacles in our way. Sept. 7th we are not allowed to write or receive more than four lines. New Commandant takes over
September 14. Twelve months today AE 1 was lost. Our captain with Russian Captain pays us a visit. We have the first chance to speak to him. He is allowed to taste our morning meal. He is disgusted with it and tells the Turkish officers that we are all looking thin and not getting sufficient food. Our coxwain showed him the plate