bran mash. This did not taste too bad but as we did not know what it consisted of we did not relish it. This meal was eaten on the deck of the torpedo boat and after it was finished we had to go down below again.
During the afternoon we were joined by two soldiers one English and one French, also two Turkish soldiers came off to keep guard over us. We got under way for Constantinople. About 7.45 p.m. we all lay down to sleep cramped up in a space not fit to accomodate 15 men not alone 32. We were eaten with fleas and lice. We arrived at Constantinople at daybreak the following morning May 1st., and went alongside. The sun was just rising and the city looked beautiful the sun shining on the domes of the great mosques.
About 7 a.m. they brought us some food aboard This consisted of some brown bread and a dish of stew. We had to sit down around this and all eat from the same dish with wooden spoons. I think it was only because we were so hungry that we ate any. After this meal we had to go below again.
At 8.30 they brought us a Turkish soldiers suit, an overcoat, pair of light shoes and a fez. They told us we had to shift into these clothes immediately. There was great laughter and joking amongst us while we were shifting into these clothes. When we were ready we were all fell in on the jetty (During the morning a great crowd had collected to see us land as the news of our capture must have spread all over the city). The crowd kept very quiet showing no hostility towards us. The only thing one could notice was a few smiling faces. No wonder for I expect we were enough to make anybody laugh.
Shortly after we were fell in our officers came off they were wearing the grey military overcoats but were allowed to retain their caps. They were immediately put in a cab with a Turkish officer as guard. We were then marched off with a strong guard over us, not having the slightest idea of our destination would be. This city which had looked so beautiful from the harbour was soon seen to be otherwise. The streets were narrow and very badly paved and the shops were very poor. They evidently intended taking us the shortest rout for we were suddenly halted and and after a short consultation we turned back on our march a few hundred yards and took a short cut passing through the Central Railway Station and passed through into the main street, the railway station was decorated with German, Austrian and Turkish flags. We then commenced to march up a steep rise. We felt it terrible hot having a heavy suit of clothes and overcoat on. Very little notice was taken of us by the populace. A few people running to each street corner to see us pass, nothing was shouted at us, a few children were following but if they came too near the