our clothes. Greeks and Armenians were forced to do all the hard work. The Turkish Commandant who had been thrown from a horse on the Gallipoli peninsular was fair and just and did what he could to help us treating us as honourable men and worthy foes.
 Mails and Red Cross parcels very frequent and another concession granted was to allow us to organise shopping parties every day to the Bazaar, also went for walks two days a week under guard. Money came regularly through the Dutch Ambassador. But I think, speaking personally at the chief factor in our quick recovery to health was due to a fellow prisoner, Captain Murphy: I.M.S. (Indian Medial Service) whose attention and care of us was unremitting Many hours of rest and recreation he willingly gave up. He was an ornament to a noble profession.
When I was nearly convalescent a new batch of English prisoners coming from a typhus infected area, brought this dread scourge into our clean rest camp. Within a few days of their arrival 15 of us were stricken down. When I went before Captain Murphy he was very sympathetic but when he saw the tell-tale black and red spots showing on my body he ordered me away with the first batch of typhus victims. We were sent to the nearest military Hospital at Nigdeh, 3 nine miles away, 

under guard of two Turkish soldiers. We were placed on donkeys without saddles or bridles, which might have been to stop us trying to escape, and these donkeys often strayed from the road in search of fodder. This was the main military road which we speak of as running to the Russian front at Livas. 
The two sentries, feeling aggrieved at the possibility of contact no doubt, gave the donkeys and riders a rough time. One soldier has just received news of his brother's death on the Bagdad front and he was especially bitter towards us. He cursed and struck us in a most impartial and brutal fashion. Those of us, sick though we were, who knew a little Turkish language, cursed him back again and threatened to report him when we reached Nigdeh. Two Russian prisoners who were alright and not sick, walked and talked with the two guards and incited them in their hatred against the British. Upon arrival we were much too done up to report the Guards and let the matter lapse.
The method of the Armenian Doctor in charge was in striking contrast to Captain Murphy. We were immediately bathed in warm water. No towels provided and then forced us into rough hospital garments whilst we were wet and shivering. We were kept waiting about until we passed through the hands of a barber who gave us a very close shave and hair cut, and then we were put to bed. Blodd tests were taken and injections given every few hours. The hospital orderlies didn't