[This paragraph crossed out:
I think this Incident be placed elsewhere not 38 p.
Again and called him "Blessed". The two German nurses working with him were so influenced by his splendid example that they soon favoured the English to the Turks on whose side they were supposed to be.]
"The German Xmas Box"
I would relate at this stage an incident which happened to my friend Private Beatty, a Queensland Soldier of the 9th and 15th Batt. A.I.F. During Xmas of 1917, we two received two days leave of absence to visit our old companions and friends at Belemedik. A sentry went with us. After spending Xmas Day there we started for hom? save the word again. A heavy fall of stone in one of the tunnels delayed us a day over our time. We had no desire to climb the precipitous mountains (see photo) even if the sentry had allowed us to try. When we returned we reported at once to the German Sergeant Major in charge of the Repair Shops and gave our explanation. He refused to give us the usual one small loaf issued the night before as the only rations for the day following. We were tired and soon forgot our hunger in sleep. Before we went to work again we asked for food but were refused and cursed for our impudence. During the day we made an opportunity and interviewed the Commandant. He was quite satisfied that our story was right and phoned a message to the Sergeant Major to give us bread. We hurried back thinking we had reached the end of our starvation diet at last and on the way, exchanging hopes that we might even get the other little loaf for yesterday. However the big German bully. He stood 6 feet 4 in. and weighed 16 stone, had worked himself up into an awful passion upon receiving the Commandants message that when we went expecting bread he behaved like a maniac, raving, stamping, and cursing in a way for which the German Sergeant Majors are so well known and dreaded by the privates under them. We tried to pacify him and explained why we had gone to the Commandant. Much as it riled us to stand patiently by, cap in hand fashion, pleading for food; the sight of the other 6 German soldiers near by, and taunting us, we kept our tempers At last I grew too disgusted and desperate to beseech this rotter any more and walked away. Immediately I was far enough away they smashed Beatty on the head. One Australian to 7 German Soldiers in the pink of condition. It was a chance too good to be missed. Beatty was struck on the head with a stick cutting his head badly. When he came out to me the blood was running down his face. I enquired what had happened and then took him before the German Doctor. He reported the case and attended to his woundes. The Doctor referred the matter to the Commandant, but in the meantime the Sergeant Major had laid a complaint against us for threatening him with violence. When we were called up to the O.C. he never allowed us to say a word but sentenced my pal to 5 days solitary and I got three, although I was away from the place where the murderous assault took place. Anyway we got bread and water regularly without having to work for it, though it was