but let them study, the politics of other countrys and then talk, our laws in Ausi and the general administration of same, will compare favorably, with any on this side, "I mean Blighty of course." there they just seem to be squabbling over trivial matters, and letting more important things, look after themselves. Think Ive said quite enough on subjects which I dont fully understand so will look for something fresh to talk about. I wrote to you about a fortnight ago but could not post the letter so decided that I would rewrite it, thats was I'm doing now. it was in answer to yours of 21st March which had just drifted in, On the 8th of Last Month I was at Pozieres.. no doubt the cable told all about the memorial held there for men of the 1st A.I.F. I was one of the men who had been in that attack, only a few from each coy went, and I was one chosen from our lot. we marched out back, it was between 8 9 miles each way. Rain fell nearly all the time, but during the service it held off The monument erected is just a plain wooden cross about 12 feet high set in concrete an Iron railing round it. it is not in the village but back along the road Gen. B. was there and unveiled it. I did not get a chance to visit the old Battleground as we had to have our dinner, as soon as the ceremony was over. Then back again to our Billetts at buire pur le Ancre a little lathe and Plaister village in a general state of disrepair. In your letter you told how the Wharfies dared Hughes to address them.. I dont wonder that he did not go near them. I have met and mixed now with men from pretty well every Trade and Industry. I have seen them En Mass and give them a start, that is all they want and very little of it. The majority of the men of that class will act on impulse with nearly as much reason as any ordinary animal. The are at times an interesting study, their politicks, are all one way, anything that does not look as though it was of direct benefit to them, was not good. Now the average shearer that you will meet today is a man who takes a great interest in matters political yet they threw their money away blindly because a few shrewd heads pointed out to them how they would benefit, by running a labour daily you know as much as I do about that organ perhaps more. I know that the shearers threw nearly &#163;50,000 into that for what? yet if any one to pay they were feeding and fattening a few shark