Here we pass through country sacred to Scott as all France is to Victor Hugo the Rhone valley to Byron. The people here do not seem so well to do as those in the south the towns of Boulogne Calais are made up of long terraces of old cottages. Occasionally we get a look at the channel, which is constantly patrolled by destroyers. We are now billeted in an old house about 15 miles behind the firing line. We can hear the guns now often I believe this village is bombed from the air. The Germans were right through this part at the beginning well the people remember it. They committed many atrocities on children destroyed much property.
My first introduction to the climate of France is enjoyable. There is a cold bite in the air which must be responsible for the rosy cheeks of all the French people. Last night we had a stay of about an hour at a village many of the villagers turned out to see us. One little girl sang to us the National Anthem of Belgium France England. They distributed eggs bread to us exchanged souvenirs. All along the girls gave us coffee at the stations in fact they accorded us a great welcome seeing that we were far from the first batch to arrive.
April 1st We are now billeted in the outbuildings of a farm well within hearing distance of the guns. We are about 18 miles from Ypres not far from La Bassee Loos. It is rumoured that we are going to take over Ypres with the Canadians.
This is a typical Flemish farm house is very dirty. All the buildings are in a cluster house barns bails pigsty etc in between the manure pits. The work progresses very little now since all the male population are away.
April 2nd Other section has now arrived together we occupy two farms. The weather is beautiful. Aeroplanes here are "more common than birds" occasionally an enemy's ?plane flies overhead. The great feature about this place is that we can get English dailies the day after issue. The village in which we are billeted is Strazeele about 16-18 miles from the "line"
April 4th Weather changes gives way to a dull leaden sky but no rain. Very cold bleak.
April 8th During the last few days we have heard many very heavy bombardments seen very many ?planes. We have been issued with two gas helmets to- day they had to be tested. Each man had to pass through a trench filled with gas but the helmet was very effective. Then we were acquainted with tear gas which irritates the eyes temporarily destroying all power of sight. This is conveyed by ?lacrymatrory? shells. What with these tests examination of 1st Field dressings