Nov 13th Embarkation troopship "Argylshire" with 1500 men. A gun for submarine defence is mounted astern. Alexandria harbour shows signs of being a very busy shipping port but is not as big as Cairo (400,000). Hospital ships illuminated with Green band a Red cross in electric light.
Nov 14th Stand out to sea bound evidently for Lemnos Island. A strict lookout is being kept for submarines all is excitement. Practice submarine fire alarm. Lights out.
Nov 15th 2 pm whistle sounded all hands came on deck with belts on on the horizon two objects were making for the ship. When they approached however they proved to be boats of the "Orange Prince" which had been torpedoed about 12 noon. There were apparently three men killed. Capt wirelessed for convoy issued orders that lifebelts were worn day night.
Nov 16th This morning we awoke to find a British destroyer on our bows which is apparently escorting us to our destination. Our voyage now lies through the Archipelago. We pass quite close to the Islands they are covered with villages nestling quite peacefully among the hills. Here too the sea is patrolled incessantly with Torpedo boats both English French.
Nov 17th Early this morning (12.30) we entered Mudros Bay, Lemnos fouling the net across its mouth for the prevention of submarine attacks. The Bay is full of shipping of all kinds, hospital ships store ships, troopers vessels of war of all kinds. The illumination of the first kind of boats makes the bay very pretty. The weather is very rough this morning we dragged our anchor collided with a hospital ship. All night long the entrance of the harbour is lighted with a searchlight from one of the headlands. On shore there are signs of a big camp the villages are typically of the islands passed en route.
Nov 19th Hospital ship "Aquitania" enters port
Nov 22nd Olympic enters port with about 7000 troops for Salonika.
Nov 26th French Hospital ship runs aground during the night but is towed off during the day. The French boats are painted grey with red cross on funnells.
Nov 29-30 The weather for the last few days is typical of bad weather here. The wind is fierce incessant very cold. It is snowing sleeting the navy has a bad time. I wonder how thing are on the Peninsular. L.H. reinforcements return to Egypt on HMS Mars.