Cairo is the largest town (700000) Alexandria second (400000) but such places as Tanta Mansurah, Port Said Suez Rosetta Damietta Zagazig are considered big.
The Suez Canals fine stretch of water about 90 miles in length capable of taking vessels drawing up to 30 feet. At Sera Peum it is about 120 yards wide which place is between the two sets of bitter lakes. It is fringed on the west by a row of pine trees. The Egyptian people are generally speaking a filthy low down race but of course this is to be taken in moderation. There is a class of very well to do highly intellectual people a class who take offence at being treated as an ordinary fellaheen. He has established in the big towns many fine businesses in fact makes a very fine business man. 
But the great majority are content with their present lot, living in the filthiest hovels imaginable in the Cities, in the country many families living in large mud buildings which also accommodates the family goat donkey hens etc. Their habits are correspondingly filthy there seems to be a general lack of education of any sort (sb) From the smallest child to the oldest men ask for "Backsheesh" I sincerely hope that I never have to see Egypt again except going or coming through the Canal. In five days I expect we will be in the South of France a country exactly the antithesis to that we have just left.
Mar 25th In the Mediterranean. Rumour now has it that our destination is Toulon. The sea is very calm we are far away from regular routes. Boat drill on four blasts of siren every afternoon.
Mar 26th Pass up the coast of Sardinia very rugged shore.
Mar 27th About noon away to head could be seen the outline of the coast of France (the ambition of every Australian) gradually it took definite shape. Great rugged hills covered with trees were a great change from the sands of Egypt. As we passed through the breakwater past the fine houses on the shore the Australian Flag was run up to the fore top the band struck up "Boys of the Dardanelles" The town we cannot see well but all among the hills are beautiful houses for all the world like Mosman Hunters Hill. The harbour is practically landlocked and the hills run right down to the