Mar 16th Rumour is still rife but still nothing definite. Ships pass daily up down the canal there seems to be a concentration of transports at either end. All men are being inocculated I may here note that of sick parade over 60% are venereal diseases. The Light Horse it seems are to be trusted with the defence of the canal our bands are practising all National airs. Tommies are continually travelling along the road to Railhead it looks as if they are taking over our places. 
A few hundred yards north along the canal are the bodies of fallen Turks who were killed in their attempt to cross the canal in Feby 1915. They were once buried but now what with the effects of the wind the men delving after relics have been unearthed. Only the other day one of our men overhauled a body finding a gold watch a considerable amount of money. Major General Cheval (1st Aust Div) at a parade accused the men who had interfered with the graves of the Turks reminded them that many of their late comrades had been left in the enemy country we left notes asking him to respect our dead.
Mar 18th We have now received many reinforcements our unit is now up to strength. Still empty troopships travel North along the canal in fact marching orders for France have come to hand for part of 1st Bgde. Battleship ?Glory" also went up to Port Said.
Mar 19th Inspection of 1st Aust Division at Sera Peum by HRH Prince of Wales who accompanied by General Birdwood a large retinue went the rounds was heartily cheered. He is only a lad, a typical English Aristocratic son, very slight of build very fresh complexion. All troops were broken off allowed to please themselves at seeing him. Naturally he was surrounded followed by a big crowd.
The troops have been now equipped with high velocity rifles which seems to point to 
close range firing. Respirators have also been issued for protection from gas attacks
Mar 23rd We are now at sea on "Ivernia" one of the smaller cunarders. On 20th inst we struck camp most of the gear being left behind at Ordnance on the 21st a party of we ?old hands" were picked out as a advance guard to be prepared to move at a moments notice. In the afternoon we packed up entrained after several long stays at various stations arrived at Alexandria on the morning of the 22nd. Open trucks were the means of conveyance sleeping.