From one of the towers you command a fine panoramic view of Cairo. The place is right on the outskirts of the town the whole city lies before you. The river runs through like a silver streak away in the background are the Pyramids Sphinx. Napoleon occupied the Citadel in 1798 after defeating the mamalukes at the Battle of the Pyramids while there he bombarded a mosque a few hundred yards away with 45 cannon shots one of which is in the walls to day. Of the mosques there are two worth mentioning one a new one one that of Sultan Hassan, 608 years old. The latter is not now used but there is much fine work in its construction, gold silver figuring prominently. Dove tailing of marble is feature. Circumcision bowl.
The new mosque, opposite to the old one is also a fine edifice. The place is covered with fine carpet lighted with hundreds of electric lights. The work is in sandalwood, marble alabaster inlaid with gold silver. The marble is representing all kinds of familiar scenes as a stormy sea, cloudy skies etc. Women pray apart from men have a part partitioned off for them. There are no carpets. It is now that I realize that Cairo is essentially a city of extremes. Immaculate filthy, rich poor etc without any medium. It is the place where East meets West, where Eastern peoples live in close contact with Western. Port Said is only the place where East passes West on their respective journeys.
Feby 13th Orders come to hand at 8.30 pm that we have to move to morrow at 6 am. All night we have been working pulling down the tents packing goods at 1.30 we have all on the wagons ready to move.
Feby 14th Move. Entrain at Tel-el-kebir in open trucks thence to Serapeum on the banks of the Canal. Here everything was unloaded then loaded wagons men cross the canal on Pontoon Bdge. Here the sand is very soft the wagons sunk up to the axles, ten horses to draw them out. Bivouac about 1 miles from canal bank.
Feby 15th Camp pitched everything settled down Now we can go for daily swim in the canal can watch boats going to from Australia etc.
Feby 20th Orders for ?C? section to move to railhead where we form a hospital for the men in the advanced trenches. We are now 5 miles from the Canal.