
the 3 miles of quite country lanes & roads, through the sleepy little village of Shipton into Tidworth where we saw a very poor show at the Garrison Theatre "Within the Law".  This morning there was an inspection by Gen. McKay but it was so cold on the parade ground that the parade gradually dwindled in numbers.  (N.B. The 1914 men are sadly lacking in discipline - the older the soldier the worse disciplined he is.)
Sund. 20th Oct.Yesterday evening the "Kookaburra" Concert Party gave an excellent show in the Y.M.C.A. here.  These concert parties consisting for the most part of girls, tour the different camps in England giving performances under arrangement with the Y.M.C.A.
Thurs. 24th Oct.We had reveille yesterday morning at 3 o'clock, & entrained at Tidworth at 8.30 on a cool, misty morning.  A 7 hours run through Ludgershall, Pewsey, Westbury, Somerton, Taunton, Tiverton, Exeter, Dawlish, Totnes, Plympton & Devonport brought us to Plymouth where we detrained on the wharf.  The long run through Wilts., Somerset & Devon on a bright sunny day was splendid & gave me the best view of England I have seen.  Mile after mile in a fast comfortable train mostly through undulating pastural country which should in my opinion be under cultivation as in France.  At Taunton the train stayed some time in the station, our free & easy crowd attracting a good deal of attention & incidentally buying out the refreshment buffet & newspaper stall.  At the fine town of Exeter we had a long halt in the station & were supplied with refreshments by the Mayoress of Exeter & numerous lady helpers.  Shortly after leaving Exeter we ran through Dawlish, a very pretty little place on the water's edge with a continuation of tall red cliffs.  The country for the most part of an undulating nature afterwards became more rugged with attractive looking houses nestling among the green hills.  After passing through some of Plymouth suburbs - Wm. Road, Devonport, Dockyard Halt, Ford & Keyham, the train ran off on to a siding that took us down to the wharves.  After one of the long waits, which we are now getting quite used to, the draft detrained & went on board two steamers which took us up the Sound to our floating home - H.M. Transport Port Lyttleton, 8000 tons, Tyser Line & before the war trading between England & Australia.  We are 800 passengers going back on leave and although crowded we should be fairly comfortable - no worse than on the Kyarra at any rate.  The draft arrangements have been anything but perfect and our various moves have been marked