<p class="page" id="a5686028">[Page 28]</p>
<p>prepare for their reception but they would have a lot of "extras" for those coming the next day. However they felt satisfied and did not envy the promises made on behalf of those back on the ship. Naturally they all felt very jolly on the way back and sang Australian and patriotic airs with great vim, the natives seemed delighted. They came back to the ship of course the same way as they went but feeling very different. It can be imagined how after going about with very little on, owing to the extreme heat and very little to do for weeks, the march in heavy boots and clothes for about 5 miles and standing up for about 9 hours, effected them however for all that none of them would have missed the little experience for far greater inconveniences &ndash; they enjoyed them selves immensely, it being so different from anything in their lives before. the next day was too wet for the remainder to go ashore but they went the day after. It was practically repetition of the first visit except that they were as promised treated more liberally and were allowed to help themselves to several carts of oranges and bananas cigarettes and tobacco and even small bottles of beer, made all the more acceptable through being donated by beautiful Spanish and English girls. Some of the men broke from the ranks and stayed ashore all night, some several nights and were caught and sent aboard under special escort. Now needless to say they are suffering punishment. We never got ashore again but some of the aforesaid girls came and gave a very nice and enjoyable concert. One item &ndash; a dance which had to be executed by an appropriately dressed pretty quartotto on the same level as the majority of [indecipherable] of the boys &ndash; was responsible for the most uproarious approbation I've ever heard or seen. Needless to say the artists themselves were highly delighted with this reception. Every day some natives in boats would hang around the ship endeavouring to sell us fruit and although the boys purchased a great deal this way, the authorities, for reasons best known to themselves, did not approve</p>