<p class="page" id="a5686014">[Page 14]</p>
<p>and at night we used them as an additional pillow. These precautions made us realise that we were not exactly safe and should be prepared for any emergency. A couple of days before the great event a big consultation called the ("Monster Equatorial Consultation") was got up by the officers. This was run on the same lines as the Tattersall's Sweep and five prizes were given, - 1st, 2nd and 3rd, 4th and 5th. The first prize was for the member who drew the exact time at which the first man from the Panama Coast set foot on the ship. the consultation was open to every man and the charge was 1&frasl;- each. A sum of &pound;62-10-0 was collected. A ticket representing each minute of the 24 hours was written out  and the man who drew the exact minute the stranger stepped on board was the winner, the ones who had the minute each side of the exact time were 2nd and 3rd and received the same amount and likewise with the 4th and 5th. The exact time our first visitor came on board was 9.23 a.m. on 25 Nov. 1917 (26 day out). No one drew this time so the first second and third prizes were divided between the two men who drew 9.22 and 9.24 a.m. each of these receiving &pound;25. One of the winners was an A.S.C. man and when he was handed the money the smile that came over his face stretched from ear to ear. This is a married man, an no doubt, the &pound;25, was most acceptable, which of course accounted for the smile. The fourth and fifth prizes went to the drawers of the times 9.21 and 9.25 a.m. and were worth &pound;6-5-0 each. Whilst we were in the middle of Saturdays nights jollifications (previously referred to) the rumour went round amongst the boys that Panama would be in sight early in the morning. It was great news and it was not long before we retired to rest so as to be in good form for the treat on the morrow. It can be imagined how happy and excited we were after sailing across such a big "pond' to hear news like that. That night we also saw another big lighted steamer moving in the opposite direction and as were a "darkened" ship this had the effect of showing the other one up more brilliantly.<br/>At last the great day arrived. We were up with the sun on the following morning</p>