<p class="page" id="a5686007">[Page 7]</p>
<p>The game was played eleven aside and the team fielding would station four men each side of the matting, just in front of the three marks, one behind the wicket, one on point and then of course would be a bowler, the batsmen would endeavour to hit the ball past the fieldsmen. The value of the hit being judged by the section in which the ball stopped. Each man was limited to ten minutes and was out if he hit a ball up and a fieldsman caught it even after it had hit the side of the ship, the canvas covering or the net without stopping in its flight. If he hit it into the sea he was credited with six runs and have to retire. The cricket ball is made of a substance something like rope and bounces tom the same extent as a cricket ball on a good wicket in the proper game. It also retains its circular shape for a good length of time and is not quite as hard as the real thing. It was quite an interesting afternoons sport and everyone partaking in it thoroughly enjoyed himself. This is a favourite also with the officers.<br/>Wednesday and Saturday afternoons have been set aside as sport days for the rest of the voyage and to date we have had three of these afternoons, Saturday (11th day out) Wednesday (15th day out) and last Saturday (18th day out). The sports held on the first two days, were in the majority of cases for fun, the exceptions being the cricket match referred to and a challenge boxing match for a side wager on the first day. The two principal sports were the "pillow fight" on a greasy pole" and "boxing". The former is played briefly as follows, the two competitors sit on a long circular pole (one of the booms of the ship) about five feet above the flooring, immediately underneath where they sit are all kinds of mattresses etc. laid down so that if one gets knocked off he would have something soft to fall on. Both men have pillows filled with "kapok" with which they batter at one another until one of them looses his balance and falls over. The final was between an A.S.C. representative and one of another unit and after a real good battle the</p>