<p class="page" id="a5686002">[Page 2]</p>
<p>to the long line of soldiers with their sweethearts, parents, ect. And friends mixed up with them marching or walking along the line of the march. We moved along practically the whole length of George Street, and every hotel and boarding house we passed on the way had its windows filled with women and men in all sorts of attire bidding us farewell. The people walking with us took turn about to carry our kit bags and parcels, and I can tell you it was a great relief. It must have been an interesting sight to people looking o, as they could see 5 or six soldiers together surrounded on every side by their friends ect., then another bunch of khaki under similar conditions and so on, - in fact a long column of "farewell send offs" would just about describe the scene. At Miller's point there was another large crowd, and even though we were all excited we could not help feeling sad at the innumerable farewells. The boys had to be clever wrigglers and side steppers to work their way through on to the wharf. We all ran into quite a number of friends but could not stay long with them. Shortly after this we managed to get on the wharf proper and there saw the fine large ship lying alongside waiting her "cargo of men." we all formed up again on the wharf and were each given a blue ticket. We then marched in single file to the gang-ways, at the bottom of which an officer was stationed. As each man reached this or that officer he handed up his ticket and was passed on board, the whole of the A.S.C. are together and have a troop deck to themselves, and we all wondered at first how we were going to accommodate ourselves in what appeared to us such a small space, but we managed it alright. We swung out from the wharf quite early and moved across Circular Quay to a spot opposite Lady Macquarie's Chair, where the ship anchored until about 4.30 in the afternoon. After the boat anchored we were busy getting some breakfast, quartering ourselves, picking spots and finding out the different positions of the ship. Our quarters are quite funny, the boys put their belongings in racks on the ceiling, sleep in hammocks a couple of feet under that, and the dining tables are a couple of feet under that again, so that really each man has his wardrobe, sleeps and dines in a space 7 to 8 feet long by 3 feet wide. Of course</p>