with the passing of A.A.S.C. along them.
Two lectures given to us by Col Nash on the dangers in the large cities especially Egypt.
Jan 16th Sat. Pay 10/-
Rain in the forenoon. Went ashore in a small cutter.
Went through a part of the town which was made up of native shops and dwellings. It was a picturesque scene to see these shops all open to the street. Fruitshops, Grocers, Bootmakers, Drapers all with a peculiar air about them which I had not seen previosuly. Every place was open to the public eye and one found it extremely interesting to watch the native blacksmith, cage makers, bootmakers and broom makers at work. We wandered about with no particular aim in view till we reached Ras-el-Tin Palace. In the Barracks some Manchester Territorials are stationed at present. A few of them took us round the barracks and showed us the place. We then made our way along the water sea front back to the city. Had dinner in the Soldiers 
 Sailors Home. Not very much life about that place.
We took a cab after the usual bargaining on prices. The driver drove us to Pompeii Pillar and we saw Catacombs under it.
 Pompeii Pillar is a tall pillar of granite and is a fine piece of work. It is said to be 2300 years old. Inset in the stand of the pillar the tomb of Pompeii was pointed out to us. We were then taken underground and there we saw some Roman Catacombs.
Having seen all that was to be seen here, we were then driven to the Catacombs proper. In seeing them we indeed got a surprise. We walked down steps which were made, spiral like, round a chimney like structure of massive stonework down into the earth. When we reached the bottom of the shaft several places like large rooms of solid masonry were to be seen. In these places the favouite horses were buried, several skulls and bones of horses found there, were exhibited.
Branching off from these rooms were passages about 4 ft wide and 7 ft high which were also of the same massive nature. These passages contained two rows on each side of the individual tombs. Various niches where families were buried and beautifully carved figures of Roman Gods were of great interst. Some remains were still in these tombs.
These places are lit up by electric light. It is an awe inspiring sight to see these catacombs. There are a great many more
 to be opened up but owing to water coming in, it will take some time to do so.
Drove round by the canal back to the city.
Went back to the ship at 4 p.m. Got orders to have our kits packed and ready to disembark.
Jan 17th. Sun. M.O.
"Kyarra" went alongside the wharf this morning. Men have been detailed for duty on the Wharf and to unload No. 2 A.G.H. stores from the ship. Kept busy all day unloading.
Jan 18th Mon.
Very busy unloading still. Had leave in the evening. Strolled along the streets of Alex ?
Jan 19th Tues.
Working in the sheds, shifting stores.
Jan 20th Wed.
Left for Cairo 8 a.m. Heavy mist in the early part of the morning. After the air cleared we were entertained to a very pretty and picturesque scene right along the line. The natives in there native dress, working in the fields, usually in groups was delightful. The natives, riding there donkey in a peculiar fashion, along the banks of the canal. The camels with there slow easy going pace and their masters seated in front of their humps with an occasional outburst in the native tongue and a wack of their stick to make them move faster was very funny. The beautiful green vegetation growing on the very flat land, land which stretched