from one of the villages near by. The corpse is carried in a plain wooden coffin covered with cloth and a tall, thin, piece in the front of it. It is placed on the shoulders of four bearers. Mourners follow in front and rear chanting some lament as they slowly walk along. Behind the mourners walked a little boy leading a saddled donkey. Probably the dead person's favourite donkey.
Aust ? troops are tugging at the leash in there desire to move off.
Mond 22nd March
Drill and Lecture. Capt Storey.
March 23rd Tue
Heavy mist crowns the top of the Pyramids. Resembles the mist on the mountain tops at home.
Lecture from Capt Reach. He gave us some news which pleased us all very much. He said that there probably be no nurses going with us. Our probable distination will be the Dardanelles. Instead of 500 beds we are to have 4,000 beds in the hospital and every man in it is to do the nursing.
If Greece had fallen in with the Allies we would probable have been settled in the North of Greece.
March 24th Wed. S.D. 25th Thu.
Spent a very pleasant time in the Gardens along with I. McK. and friends who are nursemaids in Cairo. Had a stroll through the Mouski district.
Maarch 26th Fri. S.D.
Myriads of locusts are flying about, they give the appearance of huge flakes of snow falling.
March 27th Sat. S.D.
 Orders have been issued to increase the accomodation at Mena House. We are all anxious to leave Egypt. We will probably have to wait till a passage of the Dardanelles has been forced before we will leave here.
The increased accomodation in the hospital has been rapidly filled up.
March 27th Sun.
Heavy shower of rain fell during the night.
A severe sand storm this morning. It covered all our gear with sand and made us very uncomfortable getting into our eyes, ears, nose and mouth also. The Pyramid is completely hidden from our view.
We cannot keep the pegs of our tents in the sand so strong is the wind blowing. We have a great deal of trouble with flies during the day when the sun is hot. In the cool of the evening the flies disappear and then the mosquitoes turn to torment us comes.
I have resorted to wearing my Balaclava cap during the night, but still they get at me. The very small exposed parts of my face and also my wrists get bitten all over.
March 29th Mon.
Severe storm to-day again. A great deal of stores tents etc. sent back from Cairo. Enough for other 200 patients. New wards opened. On duty in admission room.
March 20th Tues.
H.O. in La Socurs Ward. Newly opened, 28 petients admitted.