Dec 10th Th.
Feeling well, mess orderly today. Instruction in Fire Drill and Accidents to the ship. Lecture 2.30. Pay of one shilling per day. Remainder at the end of the voyage.
Sighted land about 1 o'clock today. For the last 24 hours we travelled 295 miles. At 12 o'clock we were 396 miles from Fremantle. Finished reading "A Human Face" by Silas Hocking. A splendid story. Wrote a letter to G. this evening. A rollicking entertainment was given this morning by two sets of four boxers. They boxed blindfolded. Roars of laughter emanated from the onlookers at the antics of the boxers. Some of the onlookers came in for a few blows unexpectedly.
Dec. 11th F.
Wrote a letter home in order to catch the mail at Fremantle.
Rain fell all day.
Arrived at Fremantle about 9 o'clock this evening. A beautiful starry night. Ship attached to a buoy in the harbour. It was fine to see the lights flickering in the darkness as we neared the town.
Dec 12th Sat.
Beautiful morning. The "Kyarra" is being coaled from both sides of the ship as we stand in the middle of the harbour.
Leave only granted if in charge of N.C.O. Got leave at 4 o'clock. Took train from Fremantle to Perth, a distance of about 12 miles. Took 40 minutes to travel that distance. Had a walk around town
 with T. After having tea we walked up to the Kings Park. The Park is situated very high up. We got a splendid view of the city of Perth and also of the Swan River. It was one of the finest sights I have ever seen. The Park covers a few miles of ground. There are beautiful drives in the park and a thing that enchances this appearance is the Red stones which is sprinkled over the surface of the road. There were a few beautiful monuments there also. One was in memory of a Governor of W.A., a statue to Queen Victoria, a momument to W.A. men who had been killed in the South African War, bronze tablets on the sides of it depicted scenes that happened during the war. We passed by the Observatory on our way back to town. We also passed a statue to one of the early explorers name Forest. The commemoration tablet was so obliterated that we could not learn the exact nature of the deeds done by him. Strolling along the streets again we made for the station arriving there not a moment too soon in order to catch the 9.30 train. 
We had to wait on the wharf till the N.C.O. in charge of our party came back. Rain came down while we were waiting and we got thoroughly drenched before he arrived on board.
Sunday Dec 13th
Attended the St. John's Episcopal Church this morning. The Archbishop of Perth was the preacher. Sailors 
 on the one side of the aisle and Sisters and A.M.C. on the other made a very pretty scene.
Had leave at 1 o'clock. Meant to spend the day in Fremantle but meeting in with Stillman we took train for Perth.
Went into Perth Museum. It is one of the finest places of the kind that I have been in, it is a place of real educational value. One outstanding thing that made it so, was the manner in which the exhibits were placed. Instead of the birds or animals being placed in plain cases, they were place in natural surroundings. I saw the full value of this manner of doing things when I looked at the case of birds of my own native country. They seemed very real and lifelike. Went into the baths and had a swim. Took train to Queens Park, and then back again, out to Subiaco. I had a good conception of the size of the Kings Park as it extended out as far as this place. Left Perth at 9 o'clock having spent a very pleasant time.
Dec. 14th Monday.
S.F. Paraded infull dress on the wharf after dinner. Inspected by the Governor of W.A. He talked freely with the men who wore colours for other wars on their heart.
It was very uncertain whether we would leave Fremantle today or no. Large crowds of people were waiting at the wharf. A
 few of the stokers of the ship had gone off and got drunk. The Captain and other officers of the ship went out to look for them in motor cars. We saw a few of them being brought up the gangway in a more or less helpless condition. They were all brought back but one. A man of the sailor class was standing on the wharf with a few others. As the officer was about to pass him a few words passed between them and they both got into the motor car. The car hurried away and about ten minutes after returned with the new stoker carrying his kit bag. This scene greatly amused the onlookers who gave him a hearty cheer as he mounted the gangway.
About 7 o'clock the gangway was raised and we slowly moved away from the pier. There was a large crowd, we got a splendid send off and amidst great enthusiasm we sailed away.
The comment of the troops on board was that we had seen the last of Aust ? for some time at least. Tonight is beautiful.
Dec 15th Tu. M.O. to G.
The ship sails with a bit list all to the one side which is not very safe looking. It is also rolling considerably. It is like walking a greasy pole at times getting along the deck. 
Have read the "Tale of Two Cities" by Charles Dicken. Thoroughly delighted with the story.
A meeting of the men in order to form a Sports Committee tonight