On pass after 2 p.m. D.I. and myself went round by the Sphinx. We had our photo taken in front of the Sphinx with the Pyramid as a background. We hired camels and had the photos taken as we were seated on their backs.
We then rode round by the Pyramids. Dismounting at the third/second Pyramid we entered it, guided by an Egyptian guide.
We had to slide a great way down into the earth, before we reached the chambers. There are nine chambers in this pyramid, some of which are very small. This pyramid was differently constructed from the other one I had visited.
In this case the chambers were made away down in the solid rock and the pyramid built over them. I liked this one better than the great pyramid.
Having seen all that was to be seen, we were taken to a tomb of one of the Rameses. It was only a hole in the sand. We hesitated to go under. We went under however, and we were very much surprised and also were delighted when we saw the inside walls, which would be no more than three feet high. We were in a bent position all the time.
On the walls which were solid rock, were beautiully carved hyeraglphic figures, depicting various scenes in the life of the individual, agriculture, fishing etc. It was really delightful to see this ancient art. It is said to be 6,000 years old.
In the evening we went in the car 
 to Cairo.
After having tea in Groppi's we walked about town seeing what was to be seen.
The streets were crowded with troops. One saw sights in some of these streets which they are not likely to forgot. At door after door we saw groups of soldiers standing around numbers of young women. One, at a distance thought these young women very pretty, but on closer examination one drew back with disgust at their debased appearance. To make up for their lost beauty they had painted themselves about the face and dressed themselves in a fairly becoming fashion, which would have cheated all but the close observing. There is no doubt that some of these young women had been very pretty. The life they were leading had degraded them.
They were inviting the soldiers up to their rooms which some of them were foolish enough to do. Many of these young men rue the day they entered into hospital, back to Aust ? as undesirable, ruined, not only themselves, but others, for life.
Sunday 8th, 9th 10th Wednesday,. P. all back P3.26. Longer hours on duty now.
Everything seems to be in a state of chaos. None of the officers seem to be able to take a grip of the situation and guide the hospital aright.
Thursday Feb 11th, 12th 13th 14th 15th 16th 17th Thursday Feb 18th
Eight deaths have taken place since we came here. Went into Cairo along with D.