brightly. A sight which I dont think that anyone can see unless they go to Egypt to see it. The Sphinx simply fascinated one. The features of the face seemed to me to be almost human, and I would not have been the least surprised, had that massive monument spoken to us, so real and lifelike it seemed to be.
Rode back to the Hospital on a camel's back. A very queer sensation as one rolls along. My sailing experience put me a great deal more at my ease, than otherwise I would have been. 
Purchased a few scarrabs and Ancient coins from the natives in order to get rid of them as these natives gather round and one has no peace until they are got rid of by some means or other.
Friday 29th Jan.
Transferred many patients to the Field Hospital.
News of a scrap with the Turks down on the Suez Canal. Aust ? troops sent to Ismaelia. A few of the sisters left for the same place.
A large number of invalided soldiers being sent back to Aust ?
30th Jan. Sat. P.D.
Went in to Cairo and paid I.McK. a visit.
Jan 31st Feb 1st Monday.
Invalids turned back. Something wrong in the Canal.
Feb 2nd, 3rd 4th Thursday.
Went into Cairo this afternoon along with other three. We took the tram to the citadel 
 It is like Edinburgh Castle, built very high up on a hill, with the second finest mosque in the world built at the top, namely Mohammed City Mosque.
From this point we got a splendid view of the city of Cairo and the surrounding country. At our feet lay the city, flat roofed, and covering a wide area. There are said to be 500 mosques in Cairo and to look at the minarets and domes pointing skywards above the flat tops of the houses is a fine change from what one sees in European countries.
To the left lies old Cairo a conspicuous object there is the Old Roman Acqueduct, which at parts has tumbled down. 
Away in the distance on the edge of the desert about ten miles away the Pyramids are to be seen. There are nine pyramids but only three can be seen the others are small and are almost in ruins. On the banks of the River Nile the beautiful green of the land there is delightful.
Leaving the Citabel we went down through the narrow streets and lanes inhabited by the natives. It was very interesting, and I felt as if I could never tire walking through these strange places and new scenes. 
One could see the natives at their various simple industries. There are no windows to these shops which are invariable small and one could see all that was going on.
The Egyptian women veil their faces
 the forehead and the eyes only being visible. The married women wear black veils and the unmarried wear white. To see a well dressed Egyptian women under these circumstances is very fascinating. Their eyes have a very bewitching appearance, very black, sparkling and penetrating.
We came to a mosque and curious to see the inside of it we made to go inside. As we were about to step through the doorway we were stopped and requested to put large slippers over our boots before entering. We did as we were requested.
The floor of the mosques are laid with carpet. The walls are massively built. The roof was beautifully inlaid with ivory, ebony etc.. Beautiful stained glass windows with the colours Red, Yellow, Green and Blue nicely blended gave the place a very rich and also a very refreshing appearance. A niche in the wall of the Mosque is placed facing the East. It is facing this way that the people pray. The reason is that Mecca, their Holy City lies in that direction.
A native boy was at his devotions as we entered.
Continuing our walk along the narrow streets we were attracted by quaint, crude drawings on one of the houses. We learned that these crude drawings showed to all that the inhabitant of that house had visited Mecca and the drawings depicted the 
 manner he had travelled there. Painted by an amateurish hand were figures of a house, a train, a rider on a donkey, a rider on a camel and other indescribable figures.
We finshed the day's outing by having tea in Groppi's, the high Class Restaurant of Cairo. Going into to "Groppi's" one has to pick up a plate and small fork and spoon. Armed with these, one picks out the cakes he desires of which there are a very large selection. Taking your plate of cakes to a favourite seat the waiter calls and you give the order for anything you want to drink.
We happened to be in this place about six o'clock evening, when it is very busy. The offices and places of business just having closed. To see these smartly dressed men of all nationalities, the majority of them wearing the national equivalent for a hat, namely the Red Tarboosh is a very pretty sight indeed. Large numbers of soldiers visit this place, privates rubbing shoulders with officers of all ranks. Reached back to camp as the bugle sounded "lights out".
Feb 5th Fri.
A piece of music which is very familiar to our ears in the mornings is the "Dead March". The reason for this is obvious, some soldier has passed to his last resting place.
Feb 6th Sat. H.D.