It is fine to sight land after being a number of days away from it. Any rumour to the effect that land is in sight causes a great flutter of excitment and binoculars are produced. We were sailing into harbour just as the sun was setting. Away on the horizon we could see a ship outlined against the setting sun and it made an enchanting scene.
If there had been nothing else the yap, yap of the native boatmen who came along side the ship would have told us that we were in a foreign port.
We had not been in port more than a few minutes before the natives began to beg money etc. from us. 
Newspapers of the 24th Dec. were being sold by natives on board the ship at 6p each. They contained startling news to us. One of the reports was that a raid had been made on England by the German Navy. Scarborough, Whitby and Hartlepool being the affected towns.
Felt quite lost owing to the lack of authentic news of the war.
Dec 27th Sun.
Had leave to go over to Colombo. This we did in small boats rowed by natives.
Went to the British India Hotel and had some light refreshments. We drove around the principal 
 sights of the city. A few of the places we visited were the Victoria Gardens, Museum, a Buddist Temple, the Barracks, the native quarters, and on our way round we passed various bungalow buildings which were said to be clubs of the well-to-do. The sight that interested me most in my visit to Colombo was the native quarters. They are a strange medley of human nature, these people who live their. To see them in their little tumble-down shops or rather recesses open to the street and having for sale all kinds of unknown stuffs for food etc. was to our eyes very funny and very interesting. The buildings of the whole place had rather a dilappidated appearance. This applies to the native temples also.
The idea amongst the native priests seems to be to extract money from you, and all manner of dodges to this end are made. You have to take off your boots outside the door of the temple, a little boy will look after them for you, if you pay him. Another will do the same with your hat. There are various boxes for offerings and the priest is up to his work in getting the money out of you for these charities. Long practise with this faculty makes them experts at the game.
Having driven round this route when I was here a little over six months ago I knew there were some other places