 [Page 33] 
 Sat 1st Feb. Up anchor 3-30am. Reveille 4am arriving Port Melbourne 7-30am. Disembarked at 9.30am. and was taken in motor cars through the City, (where we received a great reception) to Sturt St Barracks, where my mother and sister were waiting for me. 
 I had to have a medical inspection etc. before leaving the barracks 
 When I did get out of the barracks (at 1pm) a few of my friends were waiting for me. Well I don't think I have been kissed so much in my life. 
 It was worth coming home for. 
 Got leave till the 3rd of March. 1919. 
 Mon 3rd March 1919 Received my discharge from the A.I.F. also the large pension of 16/6 per fortnight. 
 1033 days service 835 days active So this ends my tale of the Great War Amen. 
 [Transcriber's notes: A.A.H &ndash; Australian Auxiliary Hospital at Harefield, UK. A.M.C. &ndash; Australian Medical Corps Big G &ndash; He came a Big G means he came a big gutzer or he came a real cropper. Casino Hospital, Le Havre &ndash; No 13 General Hospital was initially regarded as an evacuation hospital owing to its easy access to the hospital ships in the port. It was later decided to change No13 General Hospital into a heavy surgical hospital. Coal Boxes - heavy German shells, usually a 5.9inch, so named because of the black smoke of the shell-burst. D.A.H.Q. &ndash; Divisional Army Headquarters. Dray &ndash; this is a low heavy cart without sides, designed for haulage. Glisy is about 5kms ESE of Amiens. Horseferry Rd is a street in the City of London.  In WW1 it was the location of the Australian Imperial Force's administrative headquarters. Medical Classifications WW1 &ndash; Munro was classified a B1, A2: see below A Able to march, see to shoot, hear well and stand active service conditions. Subcategories: A1 Fit for despatching overseas, as regards physical and mental health, and training A2 As A1, except for training A3 Returned Expeditionary Force men, ready except for physical condition A4 Men under 19 who would be A1 or A2 when aged 19 B Free from serious organic diseases, able to stand service on Lines of Communication in France, or in garrisons in the tropics. Subcategories: B1 Able to march 5 miles, see to shoot with glasses, and hear well B2 Able to walk 5 miles, see and hear sufficiently for ordinary purposes B3 Only suitable for sedentary work Q.M.- Quartermaster i.e. the storeman responsible for supplies.] 
 [Transcribed by Miles Harvey, Betty Smith for the State Library of New South Wales] 
 