  
 29 August 1915 Sunday annotated 59 
 Things were quiet on our front during the night but on the Left there was further action on Kaiajit Aghala position to gain more trenches & consolidate ground already won was carried out at 0100 hours by Gen Russell. The 10th LH regt successfully took the enemy's trench held it & are now consolidating position round top of Knoll 60 & back to point held yesterday morning in continuous line, up to 0300 no sign of counter attack. Complete communication established across Haijik Dere between 4th Ausn Inf Bde & New Zealanders on Kaiajit Aghala where bombs are still being exchanged. The outlook on the Left is very promising & it is said that portion of the main railway to Maidos can be seen. On the R the Turks are trying our old game instantaneous bombs but no luck. Had usual dip this morning much colder. Visited Ted H at 1800 & nearly met it from two of Brady Bills [indecipherable] dirt flung up all round us & a man who was shoving me up the hill got it in the head killed instantly, mail arriving 19 bags 30 August 1915 Met Nell again this day 1914 Monday 45 wks from home 
 The enemy threw a few flares opposite Quinns during the night & at 10.15 pm we fired a mine for them to serve out amongst themselves, we drew heavy fire from the Turks & the Ausn Divn at Courtneys put another 3 into them. In no 6 section consolidation was carried a step further & more machine guns & trench mortars have been put in position, bombing is fairly prevalent. Our artillery has been busy throughout last night & today, firing on troops on the flat country to the L & the 5 Bty by High 6x demolished as observation station at Abdel Rahman Bair. The mountain Ctgs were firing on troops on road opposite their front all day & also destroyed a gun emplacement on which the Turks have been busy during the last few days. The ninth corps reports everything is quiet on their front. We have been subjected to a severe bombardment of 4.2 guns (1 bty) & they have blown our stores about some. Another mail arrived & I at last received one from Nell. Fritz has been dropping bombs off & on at the Right but all fall into water doing no damage. The Turks have a faulty bomb & are instructed to take care, we hear explosions regularly perhaps that's the cause 
