  
 14 September 1915 Tuesday 
 Had another bad night the rash is very troublesome & left me awake all night temperature is down to 101 am just beginning to peel & throat is still very sore. Things are normal in the harbour a little movement amongst the navy perhaps but that's all, owing to the roughness of the weather & its now raining in torrents The aviators have also been quiet but as the weather out to sea shows signs of breaking we are hopeful of an early reappearance. The Arabs have been blasting the different hills round about for the stone with which it is intended to complete the breakwater now under construction The same old melancholy chant goes on as what used to exist in Cairo little work & plenty of row. We heard a rumor said to come from General HQ that the Turks owing to a shortness in ammunition had asked Germany to hurry up the supplies or otherwise she (Turkey) would be compelled to seek a separate treaty with the allies. Hamilton has his HQ just in rear of our lines & moves to & fro from the bay via a motor a real beaut. 
 15 September 1915 Wednesday 57 wks of soldiering 
 Still another rotten night the rash is giving me hell & I feel as if I could tear the clothes off me. The airships & planes on account of the day breaking fine were out & about & dodging this way & this, the French have added two planes to their fleet which now consists of 8, 3 mono & 5 biplanes. No movement in the harbor at all, only one Hospital Ship arrived, loaded, & sailed again. I thought it was a trip for us but no such luck as yet. The navy commenced a new slipway for submarines today & two divers have been fitting the pounds at 20 fathoms they are to be made in such a way so as to enable the ships to be brought up into dry docks or the repairing sheds which are also in the course of construction. Blasting has been going on in the hills all day long & the nigs have an ample supply of stone to keep them going. We got a fairly liberal supply of fruit grapes for a change & they went down lively after being without for such a while. Another Hospital Ship has arrived & I believe about 700 from here are to board her tomorrow. 
