
6 September 1915Monday 46 wks from home
Spent another quiet night along the whole front only a little fire occasionally.  A monitor shelled 971 with her 4" guns then later the gunboats gave Walkers Ridge a dose.  Went round to pay Eric another visit but found that he had moved off with his Bn to Browns Dip & relieved the R I Rifles who are now in Rest. Gully.  The enemy shelled us & the lines of transport all day with every shell & make at their disposal but they only succeeded in getting 4 mules, even the bathing parties got a share of it.  Gun outpost came in contact with 12 men under a sergt last night in front of our lines they had been sent out to get a sniper but the sniper has got 5 of them instead.  Mail came in last night we expect to see it tomorrow.  Everyone busily employed in making winter quarters for themselves at present   Sig office & Bde office nearly finished.  Two more piers are being built opp the Sphinx & a huge store is being made inland probably as a base for the winter
7 September 1915Tuesday
Save for a miniature attack on Camel Hump later last night things were only quiet, away on the left the ninth army corps had a successful demonstration.  The Turks at daybreak gave us the usual shelling & the 60 pounders got hell for an hour or so, Indian transports also came in for a grilling & several men were hit, later when Bill & I went for water one showered us & one penetrated his shirt. Fritz was over in a brand new machine & had a shot or two with his bombs but nothing doing.  Our new home is looking something like an encampment.  Ships at Suvla keep us supplied with [indecipherable] bursting shells.  Remodelled the lines of C both tele & Cable & saved a few hundred ft of wire.  Fatigue parties still burying the enemy's dead.  Both [indecipherable] & Jack are wounded , J Ellesley is killed.  Our 60 pounders have been pumping in shell for all they are worth & as they kick up a cloud of dust at every shot they attract plenty of whistlers from Turkey Canteen Stores arrive
