<p class="page" id="a4889015">[Page 15]</p>
<p>and for as much as five seconds in others. If a bomb is timed for 5 seconds a man must throw a good distance and a fair height, so that the bomb bursts just before, or on touching the ground. We also had good practice with the rifle on the range, each man having from 500 to 700 shots before he had completed his course and was qualified. The qualified men were graded into three classes, viz. first, second and third. There was also a special class of qualified men called "Marks men" and only two men in our company won the badge, which is two rifles crossed on the cuff of the tunic. I might also mention that the winners of the badges receive a cash bonus from the Government, because it induced the troops to take a keener interest in the work. These marksmen are generally put to sniping work when they reach the front line.</p>
<p>We left Salisbury Plains on the 10th November 1916, for Folkestone, which is the port from which most troops sail for France across the Channel. We travelled to Folkestone by train leaving our Camp at 10 o'clock in the night and travelled all night in the train, arriving at Folkstone early the next morning, when we were billeted in terraces which were along the beach promenade, and which were used in peace times as boarding houses for visitors. After we had been allotted to our respective quarters, we were allowed leave to the City. I had a good look round the City, and at night I went to a play in one of the theatres and enjoyed it very much, but for the misfortune of running into the course of the Military Police on the way home, as I was beyond the limits of my leave pass as regards time. They took charge of me together with a few men they already had captured, and marched further round the City in search of more defaulters. They got more defaulters and more defaulters until they had more than they could manage, with the result that most of us broke away down a dark street and reached billets before the police. When we got to the gates of the barrier in which the terraces were enclosed, we made a mob rush and cleared the guard, getting to our billets safely. <br/>The next morning we were to sail for France, but owing to the presence of u-boats in the vicinity of the pier and a heavy fog on the sea, we spent another day in Folkstone. The morning after we were embarked on a small vessel, together with other troops who came from all parts of Great Britain, (the troops</p>