
December 17, 18, 1936.Wisenes - Hommes - 40, Chevaux (en long) - 8 - Bailleus[See image for drawing of the above.]DranoutreDecember 1837.A mail today from 'Aunt Louie' - a Jersey cake and cigarettes, & from the T.B.C. invoices of B. Const. and Georgian Poetry 1916-1917.
Here B. and C. Sections running a D.R.S.:  A. a Dressing Room for local sick parades:  so far no definite duties set, nor any instructions for work.  The whole of A. Section in a long service hut - made cosy with the warmth and colour of two full size braziers.
December 1938.All night long the guns loud:  clear lovely night and this morning a heavy frost.  Duty in the D.R.  Dressings from small sick parade.  Bill F. joined the N.S. for first duty since transfer at Devonshire Camp.
39.An afternoon half spent at the Y.M. opposite, by the warm fire, watching and studying the beauty of faces:  of Australians & N. Zealanders.  One of the 1st Engineers - or the 1st Coy. - medium short, full built and still brown faced from the summer:  all his features wounderfully clean cut and fine:  his eyes large and brilliantly blue, and long lashed, his neck thick and its muscles lithe in fine flesh.  The N.Z. hat with its narrow rim, waving from its lying folded in a kit, full of decorative lines, & a fine headpiece to a typical N.Z. face.  Met George E. there:  for a while yarning, Gen. Birmingham and musick.
40.Mail three letters from Mother, Gerald in London when she last heard from him, suffering from nerves and homesick.
From Mrs Hadley - Dec. 12, Conder has delivered her the IIIrd Diary - and other books have arrived:  evidently Alan Seeger and Certain Noh Plays.
Strange questioning - "Does any one ever tell you your writing is rather difficult to read - I often think it a puzzler and have to guess a lot".  conder has been well sized up:  "I thought he was a very nice boy, he seems a very easy going fellow, quite ready for anything that turns up."  He is at Oxford - and "we shall be seeing him again".  "I am sending you a cake." !!!
