  
 December 8, 9 17. Posted today two book parcels - Vernide and Bourke to home, and Phillips, Tagore and Roberts to Aunt Louie, also letter to Bernice, written day before yesterday in the Courcelette estaminet.  Read on receiving introduction by Lewis Hind to Christ in Hades, and at night the compleat poem. 
 No mail. 
 Match against 1st Batt. this afternoon, 11-5 against us. 
 A grey day without sun. 
 18. Rumour speaks of another damned impertinent kit inspection parade - the third of late. 
 December 9 19. In the big stone stable where our billet is, a motor garage about 20' x 40' - for a brazier fire of cheerfulness we have a patent kerosene lamp - as much use as the sun reflections of an outside fire on glass windows. 
 Around this lamp a few nights back were grouped half a dozen of us when Reddy - Gotha Reddy - joined us.  Les F. was one of the half dozen about the lamp, and R. seized the golden opportunity of imparting to him new material for his autobiography Les is by report known to be writing.  So the entertainments of the evening were a series of personal confessions - all with the crude background of the Militarie 'clink', escapades that lodged R. there, from the alpha to the omega were minutely outlined - defended and explained. 
 R. was once crucified and his telling of it was infinitely pathetic, and his descriptions blasphemously impressionistic.  "... an' there was I ..."  Slowly the brutally thick arms were raised from heavily hanging by his side, till they were outstretched by his shoulders, and as his head drooped to the side, "poor old Jesus Christ!" 
 His tellings before had been ridiculous and vainly exaggerated, but for his finale, he created his atmosphere, where the cruelty of the punishment was well brought out.  Thomas Bourke would have appreciated R. now as he loves to be appreciated.  It was on the march from Renescure to Ecuire R. charged Les with the writing "a book about me" - "Gotha Reddy - his experiences" chimed in Johnny, and R. agreed. 
