  
 January 28, 29 steps of the high altar of the cathedral of Aix, in the dream church of Aix lost in a wonder and a worship.  Tapestries, tall burning candles that are prayers, and in an ecstasy of worship, for God? - and I don't know, perhaps only a worship for a beauty that drugs and is sensual. 
 The damned lights flickering, the wicks clotted and I'm alone.  The creeping paralysis of a hopeless outlook! 
 January 29 130. "It is a poor heart, and a poorer age, that cannot accept the conditions of life with some heroic readiness".  R.L.S. 
 Last night the first frost for weeks, today lovely as yesterday with a golden sun and blue skies. 
 Bondi - and the gold and the blue. 
 131. This afternoon I've been reading the "Songs Before Sunrise:.  Only partly can I understand them, I not knowing their driving motives - their allusions.  But what ill mood could last passing a reading of this. 
 Inside this northern summer's fold, The fields are full of naked gold, Broadcast from heaven on lands it loves: The green-veiled air is full of doves: Soft leaves that sift the sunbeams let Light on the small warm grasses wet. Fall in short broken kisses sweet, And break again like waves that beat Round the sun's feet. 
 The fields are full of naked gold - so they were to us after the Bullecourt stunting when all that remained of us joined up with the 2nd at Boulencourt [Beaulencourt] near Bapaume.  Then the gold and new green green over and by great shell holes of the summer and we all stripped naked by full shellholes and bathed clean in water and golden in the sun.  Ten of us by two triumphant over war & brilliantly green trees.  We were sunworshippers all that day - and have been since.  Ernie Brown was there, and Mathieson and Nicko and Paddy and Snowy and Selwyn, all of them dead or returned to home. 
 132. To Beaumonts. "Daffodil Fields" & "Dauber" 
 Posted No. 123 to A.B. as "Night Piece". 
 133. Advance Party of 15th Field up today from Quehen.  B. Sct. to move as an advance P. 
