  
 February 17 168. Mail, 1.30 p.m.  From Mother of 13 Dec. written at Mark Foys, Mrs. Pockley's evidently in the Flat and by accounts seems happy in her choice.  Harold Reed is on his way back to N.Z.  Greg Hoope is home.  From Grandma, 16 Dec., headed "Muston Flats No. 2", a newsy dear letter, and from Mat, Dec. 16 six pages of coloured impressionism, she received Hodgson's "Poems" and seems to have enjoyed them, hope Mother receives the lace handkerchief, probably she will, since it was posted by the same mail, at Dickebusch we heard all the Christmas mail had been sunk, by the home mail this is contradicted. 
 From J. Hassal a letter inquiring if the Drawing Course is attracting me, must answer his letter and feel inclined to try it during the summer, L.U.  But no Books. 
 Grandma writes of the Referendum:  "But you seem to take more interest in books".  "Am glad you have something to take the terrible strain your mind." 
 Unfortunately when there's a "terrible strain" on your mind Books are entirely out of the question, anticipating a bomb, or half listening for a shell is a trifle distracting. 
 169. Heard the Infantry's rumour, they not leaving Meteren till March 6. 
 February 18 170. Early this morning and last night sudden heavy rolls of gunfire, and silence.  Last night raiding over the sector.  Till 11 working at supplement for "Gheitz", a success. 
 171. Mail.  From T.B.C. notification of forwarding of Hodgson's "The Last Blackbird" & "The Bull", "Holiday" of Davidson's unprocurable, but "this we hope to secure and forward shortly".  From Commonwealth Bank notification of money arriving, writing today for its forwarding here through P.Mster.  Also writing to Davis & Oriole and enclosing list - 
 "Plays", Davidson, 1893, 5/6 Pater, Benson, 1906, 10/6 "Cadences", Flint, P.B., 2/6 "Belgium's Agony" Verhaeren, 3/- Antar & Zara, Aubrey de Vere, 4/6 "Amore", D.H. Lawrence, 6/- 
 - of D.H. Lawrence, Mais in his studies says, "Is a Poet originality:  still achieves beauty at intervals, but there is an undercurrent of morbidity which destroys whole true current of his arts. 
