  
 February 20, 21 177. Dull:  a grey day of fine rain, and tonight the even ticking on the hut.  The 1st Batt. badly beat our team, 22 nil. 
 A rumour early in the day whispered of a big Boche attack, by St. Quentian [St. Quentin] and Arras, on a 17 mile front, and a deep breaking through.  Later this changed, a breaking through by the French, and good ground gained. 
 No English mail. 
 To the Canteen 40 copies of Gheitz.  This afternoon to Bailleul for paper & there bought of the ivory harlot in black furs Maarten's "The Price of Lis Doris", 3.75. 
 Posted letter to Mother. 
 February 21 178. Letter from Mrs. H. of the pencils being posted and two parcels of books arriving, "The Wild Swans at Coole", "Twelve Poems", "Decorations" and "The Glugs of Gosh". 
 A magnificent sun day.  The Rouen team left early this morning.  Jim W. with them so Jim S. and self only on Dispensary. 
 Reading this morning "The Price of Lis Doris", well written. 
 February 21 179. Toby this morning called to O.R. - something of entering in Pay Book monies for cable sent from Egypt.  Probably I'll be up shortly on same case, since the understanding from H.Qrs. was that cables could be charged against deferred pay, will question entry in P. Book. 
 180. After tea for a walk to the Border with Basil, yarning of beauty and an average appreciation, of emotion felt and expressed, of genius and inspiration and of imagination. 
 Arguments that arose out of expressions of admiration for Maude Allen's musick interpretations - "quite unnecessary efforts" - to quote Basil. 
 Walking back a yarning of personal room decorations and designings discussed - green white and brown - brown, white and vermilion - endless combinings of colour. 
 Back at D.R.S. to the Rec. Hut for Musick:  the crowd at the Euchre party so a half empty hut.  Yarning then to Rusty, I of Shaw and on to Alec Waugh, to London theatre and home theatres, only in one line can London shew us a lead - pure vulgarity. 
 [Comment in margin]  Payed 40 F. drawn. 
