  
 January 22 110. Mail yesterday brought report from T.B.C. of 1st edit. of Burke's Limehouse Nights, wrote for it, and an hour later declining it, a dozen times I've decided for and against:  the price though is really too high.  But Twinkletoes was a fine and richly written book.  Limehouse Nights was the first of the Limehouse sketches, I'll for it!  Will write after receiving of T.L.S. today. 
 111. Last night with Frank K. and Bill F. to Kookaburras:  a special programme there being amongst the audience a live and tame general and his staff, and recognised an old enemy amongst that most brilliantly band'ed staff, a Maj. who at Ribemont in Nov. '16 put Clarrie and self out of one of the A.D.M.'s lorries when we were travelling down to Buire to join up the unit. 
 112. Today a grey mild day as yesterday, rain clouds low in the sky and each morning lovely colourings about the hills before the sun. 
 Read last night Masefield's sonnet "Roses are Beauty". 
 January, 22, 23 113. Written to T.B.C. declining offer of 1st edition of Limehouse Nights at 18/-.  Ordered "The Vengeance of Fionn" by Clarke, and "Appreciation and Depreciation", Boyd.  From them my full account since 1916 - starting with the order for Raemaeker's cartoons by The Fine Art Society.  (41710) 
 [Comment in margin] No. 151, Diary IV. 
 Also for Masefield's "The Old Front Line".  'War Poems' of Vernide in 2nd edit. 
 114. It was Henderson of Charing Cross Road who first shewed me Pearse's Collected Works Volume and who recommended me to read it - he first told me of Pearse being of the Easter Risings victims, now in the Jan. 17, T.L.S. appears - 
 On the Irishmen Executed in Dublin.  A Poem to which is added a Note on the Present State of Ireland.  By Albert Clement White, 71/4 x 43/4, 11 pp. Henderson's.  2d. n. 
 A poem of six quatrains, reprinted from the New Witness.  Mr. White wishes to show that "the dead who died for Ireland in Easter Week ... died in precisely the same cause as the Irishmen who - like Professor Kettle and Major Redmond - have died in the war." 
 [Comment in margin]  Arrived Feb. 4. 
 [Comment in margin]  Maj. Redmond's grave near here - in the grounds of D.R.S. run by 3rd at Loche. 
 January 23 115. Posted today letter of Mon. 26, asking for a couple of Venus Pencils:  one I'm using so used down that even with holder it's difficult to work with:  last night sketched in "Fairies & Fusiliers" below "I wonder what it feels like to be Drowned":  roughed out another 
