  
 February 3, 4 139. No Book Mail:  but a slight letter from Mother of Nov. 28, written on back of reply to Lindsay by R.B. Orchard re my returning, so that seemingly was "the private enquiring as to my health". 
 Tonight an hour listening to Vern and Frank K. singing in Rec. Hut - to Basil B.'s accompaniment:  Vern in splendid form and "The Floral Dance" and "The Blind Ploughman" ripping. 
 Cold:  grey mists and faint stars, last night heard the Archies twice - planes over three times, tonight? 
 February 4 140. At last the looked for mail - "Whim", W.W. Gibson, Stephen's "Five New Poems" (Flying Flame) & "Selection from Writings of Lord Dunsany" - a Cuala book of 100 pages:  Baker's catalogue priced at 35/-, Beaumonts 12/6.  Five New Poems a surprise - and a disappointment.  From Hendersons "On the Irishmen executed in Ireland" and Stephen's Insurrection: the more I read of Stephen's the more I surrender to his wounderful charm. 
 Tonight with Eric G. and Basil B. for a walk towards outskirts of Bailleul, yarning of Ashe & his marvellous staging:   "Choo Chin Chou" and "Kismet" argued on and compared - and a cataloguing of - but what I liked - a pleasant walk:  rich high stars, and away towards Poperinghe searchlights pencilling the dark. 
 Back in admitting hut, a continuing of talking - B.R., J. and Jack W. Halford there too - Cathedral and Gothick & Byzantine, Religions and Ceremonial and Church stage management, and books.  Bob reading "The Loom of Youth" and MacKenzie spoken of, so the Sinister St. and the rich impressionists, back then to religions - and a serious and genuine note introduced by Jack W. and "argument about it and about". 
 Eric G. this morning meeting self in Chart Room 1 (more of it later) spoke of publishing of Dyson's A.I.F. sketches, an edition de luxe at 1.1.0.  This I'll get before any more Cuala Books. 
 Posted to T.B.C. order for Anatole France's "White Stone" or "The Sapphire Ring" - and reminded them of a late ordering of the second book of Padraic Pearse. 
 The first volume comprises to me the most perfect self confessing and true autobiography. 
