  
 February 5, 6 141. Mail - letter from A.B., possible accepting of "Night Piece".  Others have home mails dated as far forward as Dec. 15.  Evidently Blue H. did forget posting of letter to Davis and Oriole for Watsons and W.W. Gibson's books. 
 Frank D. back from Blighty yesterday - O.R. this morning in "overstaying leave"! 
 February 6 142. With Frank S. to Bailleul - and so to Anzac Coves' Concert - the last of the season (!), they to open next week in London at Court Theatre, if their show's no better than it was last night - the same programme almost to an item that was last March in Albert. 
 No Mail. 
 Dentist, back filling for root treatment, arsenic filling and a solid aching! 
 143. Bailleul disappointing from architectural standpoint:  the Hotel de Ville and the Cathedral (?) Towers merely built up and ugly detailed roofed piers, crudely strutted with indiscriminative iron and loosely repaired with fine brickwork.  From here towards the right, at the end of the long heavy Chateau buildings there's a finely silhouetted church tower, grey and of a Florentine suggestion. 
 February 6, 7 144. To Dranoutre by self - to Y.M. to exchange "The Achievement" in the hopes of "Sinister St." being in:  but it was out, so brought away "Essays of Elia". 
 Early in the dark of the morning rain, till midday grey deep clouds seemed full of snow, and the wind was cold, then great breaks over Bailleul, and an afternoon of blue skies and full sun. 
 Basil has from George C. a copy of Nina Murdoch's "Songs of the Open Air". 
 Tonight I'd wish to lie and listen to a good reading of Boccaccio, of Apuleius, of "Physce's visit to Hades", or "The Song of Songs". 
 February 7 145. In the hut billet:  at 8 oclock, a hut of about 30' x 14', in its centre an iron stove with its improvised chimney of tins, a hipped roof of lean construction and a scleroid covering.  Along each side kits and blankets, now the light by ten waving candles, in a corner by me.  Toby B., Johnno and Ridge, lying on made beds, eating bully and bread.  (Bread rations the last few days have been a loaf to 2.)  Down from me five straightly laid kits, and Brooke in bed reading, on the opposite side 
