  
 Walls left standing, the Fine roof of the Station is smashed likewise the Walls knocked about, Railway lines about the yard lay twisted & broken everwhere in fact the whole place is practically one ruin, As soon as we had put more Vans off we left with another Pilot to go on to Three Kings a siding about a Mile further along on the Main line towards Menin passing the new single line to Roulers, also Shrapnel Corner, which is laid bare, not a Tree left standing neither a house & shell holes everywhere, The Traffic along the main Road at Shrapnel corner being fairly heavy, mostly Motor Wagons, As soon as we had placed the remainder of our Train in the Siding, the Motor Supply Wagons came alongside & in a minute all hands were busy unloading their supplies for the Advanced Areas, As Fritz is retreating so fast it is very difficult for the Supply Wagons to keep in touch with our Boys Advancing, with the result a lot of Rations have to be carried by Aeroplane packed in bags of Sand & dropped from a low Altitude, the line to Roulers 
 [Transcriber's notes Page 1:  SATO  - Senior Ammunition Technical Officer Page 6:  "Pidgeon Post" - "By Pigeon Post", a play by Austin Page. Page 7:  valice - valise Page 13:  Clydebanck, - Clydebank Page 14:  Ahlambra Theatre - the Alhambra Theatre Page 20: Fened is an archaic Scottish real-estate term Page 26:  Kircaldy - possibly Kirkcaldy Page 31:  Westminister Bridge- Westminster Bridge Page 40:  Pont De Bricques - Pont-de-Briques Page 40:  Audruicque - Audruicq Page 41: Boubourg - possibly Bourbourg; Zeningham Page 42:  R.T.O. - Railway Transport Officer; Pettite Scynthe- Petite Synthe; Hazebruick- Hazebrouck Page 43:  Milo Les Sands - possibly Malo Les Bains Pge 44:  Esquelbec- Esquelbecq; Cassell- Cassel; Wallen Capell, possibly Wallon Cappel; Page 48:  Blendeques- Blendecques Page 49:  W.A.A.C. - Womens Auxiliary Army Corps Page 50: Sammie - an American soldier Page 53:  Wardreques- Wardrecques P57:  Eblingham- Ebblinghem P. 65: St Momolon - possibly St Momelin p. 66: Wardreques  -  possibly  Wardrecques Fouquereuill -  Fouquereuil P. 72:  Lottingham -possibly  Lottinghen P. 73:  Hesdignel - possibly  Hesdigneul p. 74:  dixie - an Army cooking pot P. 75: Leus - probably Leuze P. 78  Blaringham - possibly  Blaringhem P. 85 Nelles les Blequin - possibly Nielles-les-Blequin P. 92: Zenningham - possibly Seninghem P. 96 Goedersvaeldte - possibly Godewaersvelde Poperinghe - possibly Poperinge Flamertinge - possibly Vlamertinge] 
 [Transcribed by Rosemary Cox and Alison O'Sullivan for the State Library of New South Wales] 
 