17/12/18 Boulogne
 Up at dawn ? a wet and cheerless one that augers ill for the march today. Everyone was soon very busy packing up and cleaning up. The cheerful crackle of waste cartridges in the fire ? a wonder no one has yet been hurt by this means. At 8.35 a shower blew up so I ordered coats and waterproof sheets. We pass our starting point at 9 and make our own way up to Avesnes where we shall pick up the Bde. column and swing into place behind the 24th. Passed our point and marched to Avesnes via winding narrow hedge lined lanes. The tower of the church insert drawing here square and solid is a prominent land mark. At the corner here Generals Rosenthal and Robertson were waiting. Called the Battalion to attention and they went past in fine style. The colour party consisted of Pte M N

 
 17/12/18 Boulogne ? Solre Le Chateau
 Cowan DCM MM and Sgt T.G. Strachan DCM MM with young Bugler Snaith. An Australian ensign and the Battalion colors were carried. We halted at Feullieres and formed up on a piece of vacant ground for lunch. On moving off again a crowd of funny little kids followed the band. The country we passed through must be very pretty in springtime and pleasant smooth and charmingly old world. We reached Solre-le-Chateau just before dark and the men swung in at attention through a lot of spectators in a way that gained them fresh commendation. The church there is about the most prominent feature and must be hundreds of years old. The tower is bulbous and has a Flemish look. Low down in it is the main door of the church. The square is all

 
 17/12/18 Solre-Le-Chateau
 cobbled and surrounded with old tiled houses not unlike old Bailleul. All were soon settled down in their billets here. I had a cosy room with a folding bed. The streets thronged with troops for the whole Brigade is lodged here. Issued orders for our early start tomorrow. Mess was held in two fine connected rooms with a roaring coal fire and an Australian mail came to hand afterwards filling in the evening pleasurably. The old winding streets of the village were full of men until a late hour. Re the notorious duckhouse ? last night Gorman waited till the moon went in and then with of G.S. acquired a good lot of timber from near a bridge. This morning our Pioneers rebuilt the place and the Maire gave us a clearance. All now hope this closes the affair. 

 
 18/12/18 Solre-le-Chateau ? Solre St Gery
 Spent a sleepless night and had to get up several times. It rained nearly constantly. Up at 5.30 am in the pitch dark and shaved and breakfasted. Went into the old church which is a fair sized place with good stained glass windows. The usual side chapels had candles burning in them even at this early hour and there was more than one silent worshipper. The rain was coming down in cold sheets and a more wretched day it would hard to imagine. Set off in column of route at 8.30 am and had a bit of trouble with roads owing to some engineer pontoon wagons getting bogged. Plugged on steadily through the rain passing through country that must be very pretty in peace time. At 11 am we left France and found ourselves in Belgium. A post with red and black stripes and indicating a Douane Belge marked the frontier. From

 
 18/12/18 Solre-St-Gery - Barbencon
 here on a good many of the signs were marked in French Flemish. Just before coming to a fine large leafless forest we came upon a perfectly good 77mm gun left by the roadside. It bore a legend that it was captured at 11 am 11/11/18 and marked the furthest limit of English advance by fighting. We wound our way into the poor village of Solre St Gery and then across pretty country to Barbencon. In all today's march was about 11 miles. Soon settled in billets. Cleaner houses and cleaner kitchen utensils show we are among the Belges. The people look speak different to the French. One feels their hatred of the Germans is only lukewarm. After mess enjoyed the "Times" and then returned to billet and yarned in living room with the hard working people. On their own admission they own 80 acres @ 120 per acre.

 
 19/12/18 Barbancon
 Not much sleep again. Rose at dawn more rain. The people of the house up and for all their 10000 fortune Mme Mlle were working the separator or "turbine". Batmen busy packing up and putting valises blankets on the wagons. We marched out of the village at 8.30 colours flying and band playing. There was a gleam only of sunshine. Plugged along the main road and then turned up to Castillon. The clouds now came over all and we had driving showers of hail and sleet. The roads covered with a soupy creamy mud. The weather cleared just as we passed General Rosenthal who was lying in wait for us. Came up to Rognie marching well and [indecipherable]. From here we made for Thy-le-Chateau a big place alongside the railway but with factories from which all the machinery had been removed. 

 
 page has no date, no place, but this calculation:
 8.9.6
32) 169.6(5
 40
 9

 
 19/12/18 Gourdinne
 We entered Gourdinne at 1.30 pm and found the place not too bad. I am lodged with the owners of the brasserie. Found the Marie's place ? a rich man evidently. Had something to eat here and then went over to the mess. Drank wine with some people at the local school and then had long talks with people about all the atrocities at Louvain which they substantiated. Everyone seems to be well lodged here and quite comfortable. the village is clean and the houses ditto. Some are sewered and in nearly all there is electric light. I wrote and read after mess at the billet. The place is beautifully comfortable and the people seem to have plenty of money. There is every convenience in the house and yet the people do not seem to get much of real pleasure out of their money. 

 
 20/12/18 Gourdinne
 A cold day with showers. Walked around the village getting to know it thoroughly and becoming satisfied that it is one of the best we have been in and that the barns and so on of stone are a great improvement on the wattle and daub of France. The people are scrupulously clean in their houses and raise their hands in holy horror at the dirtiness of the French. The General arrived cold and wet about 11 am and I took him off to the Burgomaster's billet where we had caf. They insisted on our going right in and dining with the people themselves or rather taking coffee with them. After lunch the day became very dark so I returned to my billet and spent nearly all the afternoon yarning with the people there and the son who is a brewer

 
 20/12/18 Gourdinne
 and learned his trade in the town of Bruxelles. At 4.30 we had a full meeting of the mess and had a good discussion of all matters connected with it which quite cleared the air. After that it was just time for mess. Smith was elected secretary of the mess and a strong committee backs him up. Returned to my billet after and yarned with the Madame there about the cost of living and the price of things. 12 francs a reel for cotton, 200 francs a pair for boots, 1600 francs for a stylish suit of clothes. Yet sugar coffee seem plentiful and the meals the people eat are liberal enough. They say they have never lacked meat and the cultivators have always done well by being producers and having their own produce to eat.

 
 21/12/18 Gourdinne
 Finer today. Did a round of the billets and found the rifles much below standard and the latrines in a bad way. Roused up a number of people. The village is a prosperous and substantial place and I should say that the people are in general very well off. Gorman returned in the early afternoon having been up to Bruxelles and been successful in securing the necessary blocks for our dinner menus. This day we sent an increased leave party into Charleroi. Madame's daughter from Charleroi came in at lunch time and is a fine looking woman but rather inclined to stoutness. Rode over to Nalinnes to Bde. HQ and had afternoon tea with General Robertson. Gullasch and others came in then. The Prince of Wales is now attached to our Corps and is moving around a lot .

 
 21/12/18 Gourdinne
 For our Xmas dinners we require a great deal of crockery which up to date we have not been able to procure as it is difficult to put hands on it. Am sending both Gorman and Hutton off on the quest again tomorrow. After mess yarned with Kennedy who today returned and then went back to my billet meeting Madame's son in law who is a mine manager at Charleroi and speaks fairly good English. The brasserie in which they are interested here is famous for an extremely light beer and seems to return them a good profit. Last night some vengeful civilian put a firestick into one of the hayricks belonging to the old Burgomaster who appears out of favour with a section here. Extremely cold evening.

 
 22/12/18 Gourdinne
 Sent a good batch of men on leave into Charleroi. Put in a good deal of the morning in the Regtl. Office and, while there, the first orders came for the despatching home of our 1915 men. Thirteen in all we contribute. The padre has an idea for voluntary church parades in lieu of the formal compulsory ones. Matthews unwell today. I took a good walk after lunch. The day was piercingly cold and the sky overcast. All the woods black and bare of leaf. Unlike the parts of Belgium we have previously been in the ground hereabouts is by no means flat. A view from any little hill reveals a surprising number of villages ? quite in keeping with the most densely populated country in the world. Every little valley seems to have a compact little village tucked