May 6thLeft Lemnos at 5.30 A.M. this morning arrived off "Anzac" about 8.30 A.M. We were escorted by 2 destroyers. All troops ready for disembarking. There are scores of Troopships anchored off here also many Warships. There is heavy fighting going on ashore. We can see hear the guns going a treat, often shells burst over the Troopships the old "Seang Bee" had her deck damaged with Turkish Shrapnell. Our boys disembarked about midday, we tried to scramble off with them but were stopped told we would be guilty of deserting our post aboard Ship, not a bad joke, suppose we will have to remain here until relieved. The Warships have their searchlights going all night.
(7) Fighting going on all night, mostly rifle fire, about 5 this morning things got extra willing, Big Guns talked the air was alive with bursting shells. The Turks artillery fire a great many shells on our landing stage. The noise from "Queen Elizabeths guns was deafening it fairly drowned all other noises, The shells from her 15 inch guns burst with an awful crash, one would think half of the Hill had been blown away. when her shells struck them, Just after our Sea-planes went to roost a Turkish Aeroplane flew out over the Bay and was immediately fired on from the Warships, but they escaped.
(8) Things fairly quiet early this morning, but about 9.30 Queen Lizzies guns broke the solitude they all took a hand "Big guns, machine guns rifle fire buzzing Seaplanes overhead made things real merry. Trawlers bringing our wounded off to the Hospital ships. The din slackened down about midday. The Turks apparently have their guns well concealed. The weather is Ideal.
(9) Very little rifle fire going on last night. About 10 A.M. this morning The Turks shell our landing stage, but only did slight damage. Several shells came out among the Troopships, a piece of Shrapnel tore a hole through a ventilator on board our ship. Many dead bodies of our lads taken out to sea buried. Brig General Carruthers C.B. came aboard this afternoon to find out what stores were aboard. Our Warships doing a little bombarding this evening.
(10) We left Gaba-Tepe at 6 A.M this morning for Cape Hellas about 1 hours steam. There are many Warships Troopships anchored off here. The Battleship Majestic was sunk off here her keel can be seen above water. The entrance to the Dardanelles from "Seddul-Bahr" to Fort Kum-Kale is about 3 miles the depth about 50 fathoms, the highest point is "Tree Peak Hill" 730 feet above sea level. Heavy cannonading going on all day. Went with Ships 2nd Officer to H.M.S. Queen this afternoon, called on old Seang-Bee on the way back.
(11) Rain fell during the night. Heavy artillery having a day out, Shells flying in all directions, several fell near Base on beach. Many sick wounded came aboard this afternoon. Lt Col Newmarsh is in command of the A.M.C. aboard. Things very lively ashore tonight rifles machine guns barking to some order.
(12) Weather rather cold. Heard the old 15 Bn came off successful in bayonet charge made yesterday. Have met several of my old comrades who have been wounded. Our Warships opened a terrific fire on Turkish Forts about 7P.M. tonight kept it up for a couple of hours, what a din, Flashes from the bursting shells booming guns resembled Thunderstorms.
(13) Gun fire started again at midnight kept up till early morning. We heard that "Fort Chanar" had been put out of action by yesterdays gunfire. H.M.S Golieth was sunk off Cape Helles our losses were 540 seamen. Another batch of our wounded were brought aboard this afternoon, many were suffering from wounds for hours.
(14) Fine weather., Heavy fighting going on ashore. A Turkish Submarine reported to have got through the narrows last night. All transport ordered to leave at once for safe anchorage. Our Ship left about 4P.M. arrived at Lemnos just after 6 oclock after a fast run across. We steamed inside the harbour boom anchored.