(7) Sea much calmer. Still catch-as-catch can with the Tucker. Some of the boys find it pretty tough tackling the new menu viz Bully Beef Biscuit. We are feeling the change in the weather now it is much cooler. We are steaming among a number of small islands belonging to the Greek Archipelego.
(8) Calm Sea. Beautiful sunny morning. Still among the islands. Passed by 2 French Destroyers 2 of our own large Battleships they looked fine, also the 5 funnelled Russian Cruiser "Askold". We arrived at Lemnos Island about 5P.M., A great many Troopships Hospital Ships anchored here, There are some small Greek villages around the Harbour some nice farms. The 3rd Brigade who have been here 8 weeks embark on board H.M.T. Suffolk, troops pouring in from all parts, we are about 30 miles from the Dardanelles.
(9) Beautiful weather, transhipping foodstuffs to "Suffolk". Troopships continue to arrive. The Naval Sea Planes go out in the morning return at midday. Our troops received orders to be ready to move off this afternoon, I had the bad luck to be left in charge of Ships Guard, but I suppose its all in the game.
(10)Fine weather Transhipping going on all the morning. Colonel WC several other officers remaining aboard also 3 men AMC men 3 signallers-2 large troopships arrive this afternoon. There are 6 battleships at present in harbour.We are only 2 hours steam from the Dardenelles.
(11) Things pretty quiet on board now with the boys away. The Battleships go out occasionally to the narrows we can hear them quite distinct Bombarding the Forts. At present there must be fully 100 vessels in port of all descriptions. It is a fine sight.
(12) Fine day. Col McVea received instructions to join H.M.S. Queen Elizabeth which left early this morning for the Narrows, probably to select suitable Landing places for the Troops. Queen Elizabeth returned to port about 7.30P.M. after exchanging shots with the Turkish Forts, Aeroplane also returned after flight over Turks position.
(13) Turned out rather cold showery to day, Troopships still blowing in I got a few details about the fighting that has been going on in the Dardanelles from petty-Officer who was aboard H.M.S. Irressitable which struck a mine sunk, H.M.S Ocean a French Battleship the "Bouver" were also sunk, a large number being drowned. Some principal Turkish Forts being put out of action. We have several Submarines here.
(14) Our ship turned into a Hospital Ship for the time being. About 250 sick Troops taken on board suffering from all kinds of illness Col Percival D.S.O was also among the number. Colonel McVea left this morning to join his Battn also Capt Littler of Tasmania. Ships still arrive here carrying troops other impedimenta for the Army.
(15) Fine weather. We left Lemnos for Alexandria at 9A.M. this morning with sick injured. There were also a number of men being sent back to prison for various offences committed while on Active Service. One lad died this morning was buried at sea his name (Pte McInnes) South Australian.
(16) Beautiful day with smooth sea, which makes things ever so much better for the sick. We passed by several Troopships steaming north. We saw very pretty sunset this evening.
(17) Arrived at Alexandria at 6.30A.M. Sick taken ashore sent by train to Heliopolis. Several of the secure leave to go ashore, had a trip around myself, It is a much nicer place than Cairo, it has a beautiful sea front some fine buildings son on, but still has the same old pen ink (stink) . There are a great mixture of foreigners here but the French Greeks appear to be the thickest. There was a dust up here this evening between some of our own artillerymen who are camped at "Mex" some native police, things were real lively while they lasted, was going strong when the Maltese Italian Police arrived in the nick of time stopped it. A few fellows were damaged.