3rd July. Everything pretty lively all along the front from "Armentieres" to "La Bassee". Several Aeroplane actions.
(4) Our Brigade marched out from "Sailly" about 8.30P.M. this evening. We marched in squads of 6 and 7 men at 15 paces intervals to prevent haveing serious losses in case we were shelled by the enemy. Pretty awkward keeping in touch with each other in the dark, 2 of our Coy were hit by fragments of Shrapnell just before reaching the Trenches. Our Artillery kept up a furious fire on the German positions. We occupied our portion of the Firing line at "Forays Post" about midnight relieving the 3rd Bn. Plenty of mud and slush about after the heavy rains, the boys splashing about like so many ducks. The German Trenches are about 300 yards in front of us. The majority of the boys in our Coy are reinforcements who joined us up in Egypt, and naturally some were a bit nervy art first but they soon settled down to business.
(5) Stand to arms at 2.30A.M. The Brigadier came around about 3.30AM. B. Coy had 1 man killed 1 man wounded early this morning. Everything quite again until about 6.30 P.M when they got very merry. Our Artillery opened a very heavy fire on the German Trenches, and of course they replied and there was some screeching overhead as the great Shells tore along. Our Gas Alarm gongs sounded about midnight and our boys donned their Gas helmets, as it was reported the enemy were using Gas, but it was a false alarm. Stand to arms at 2.30A.M. till 4 o,clock, plenty of work to be done, strengthening parapets dug-outs. The usual amount of sniping indulged in on both sides. The German is not so good at sniping as the old Turk. Enemy Artillery shell A. Coys trenches on our right this afternoon and make several large gaps in their parapets, Another heavy Bombardment after dark machine guns were barking in all directions. One enemy machine gun in front of our Post is very troublesome, he often sprays the parapet with bullets, the boys call it "Parapet Joe". At night the space between our lines and the enemys (No mans Land) is well lit up by their flares which they fire continually to guard against surprise from our blokes.
(7) Another gas alarm at 1 o,clock this morning. Raining again this afternoon making things very uncomfortable for everyone. About 2 o,clock this afternoon the Enemy fired a few shells into our trenches doing slight damage to C. Coys parapet, but our crowd escaped damage of any kind. Usual sniping indulged in all day. Enemy shell burst among a working party in the communication trench this afternoon and killed one man.