(8) Beautiful Summer Day. About 9 o,clock tonight things got very lively, our guns and Mortars rained Shells and Bombs on enemys trenches, damaging them badly in places and tearing a fair amount of hisbarb wire defences away Then "Fritz" (Germans) took a hand and gaveus a very lively time especially on the right of our Battn, were they thought our Trench Mortars were. A. Coy had 3 men killed 4 men wounded, among the killed was one of my old mates Signaller Sid Wells who came from Australia in my Coy. Enemy Shells fell pretty thick near "Convent Avenue" were our Brigade Headquarters were but very few burst, The village has been battered out of recognition, only ruins remain. And the fields after nearly 2 years of war are growing, weeds, corn, and all description of vegetation.
(9) Stand to arms at 2.30 this morning. An enemy Aeroplane flew over our trenches this morning and was shelled by our guns but escaped. This plane is about the fastest I have seen, it could go some. Another heavy bombardment started about 5 this afternoon, our artillery destroyed portion of enemy trenches and wire entanglements. Enemy replied towards dusk and did some damage to our Parapets dug-outs. Lieut Davis and myself out on Patrol into "No mans land" about 10 o,clock to find out how much damage our guns had inflicted on the Hun trenches. We had to keep on the alert because the enemy flew up flares continually, as they must have been expecting an attack from our boys, we got pretty close to enemys lines and could hear them jabbering away while they repaired the damaged works. So we started on our return journey about 2 o,clock in the morning, after reaching our barb wire the fun started, it takes some wriggling through, however while we were twisting about one of their flare light revealed our position and the put over 3 bursts of machine gun fire, the bullets pinged into the ground about us but we never got hit. As a matter of fact I thought the end had come. We had to remain still untill the flare went out, and then made a dash for our lines which we reached safely, me with my togs torn to shreds after my argument with the barb-wire, some joke I can assure you. However alls well that ends well. Our Commanding Officer was well pleased with our investigations.