August 15th We are allowed 4 hours leave from Hospital every afternoon, so I took a stroll around Stockport. There are numerous Cotton Mills in this part of England, of course Stockport is a Suburb of Manchester with a large canal running from Liverpool which enables the vessels to bring the cotton straight on to the mills. The City of       e United Kingdom to London "Some City Sure".
(16) A party of us were taken up to the City this afternoon, There are some beautifull buildingsto be seen it is a very busy place. We were taken to a picture Palace which was very nice especially the music We also had our Tea in the City.
(25) A small party of us taken to "Mossley" about 21 miles from Stockport and went into a convalescent Home away up among the hills. This place is also a great manufacturing centre, Cotton mills so on. The amount of stone used in the construction of houses on the roads, resembles Gibraltar in the south of Spain. We are housed in the "Mechanics Institute" which has been turned into a home for the boys, it is in the hands of St John Ambulance, and they attend to us first class.
(28) A piece of good news in the paper this morning in reference to Roumania,s declaration of War against the Central Powers, they have a splendid Army, which will be of great use to the Allies.
(30) A party of us were taken and shown over one of the largest Cotton Mills in the district this afternoon, it was very interesting, they have some wonderful machinery.
Sept 1st Took a stroll up on the Hills this afternoon to get a close view of "Hart's Head Pike a tower erected a number of years ago, The storey about is , that Mariners can pick up their bearings by it when miles at sea.
(4) Another big Zeppelin Air Raid over London last night, One of our aviators brought one down in flames, a grand piece of work to be sure. Two other boys and myself were incited out to Mr Rawsons place "Herod" near Stalybridge for Tea and spent a pleasant time Mrs Rawson her daughter played the piano and sang to us.
(7) Left Monday for London at 10 oclock this morning and arrived at Euston Station at 3P.M. and reported to Headquarters, Westminster.
(8) Left Waterloo Station at 11 A.M. and arrived at Luggershall Station at 1.30PM and were conveyed in motor cars to "Perham Downs Camp. there are about ,000 Australian troops training here, mostly new arrivals from home. Also large numbers of Imperial Troops. Met one of my old comrades out of 13th Bn down here.