(15) Aeroplanes extra busy to day, 5 German 6 of our machines had a scrap this afternoon, things were real lively for a tome, but after about an hours fancy twisting about in the air each returned to their own lines. Lively Artillery Bombardment on this evening. We had no less than 4 Gas Alarms to night, gongs and horns ringing snorting everywhere. Enemy Artillery fire a few Gas Shells someone must have got noises in the head and gave the Alarm as a "Dinkum" gas stunt. Sgt O,Donnell wounded in the right shoulder while out on fatigue to night.
(16) Very "nippy" this morning. Enemy had several of his observation Balloons up this morning. Our own Aeroplanes were flying about in large numbers. Another lively Bombardment on this evening. We heard the 52nd Bn made a successful raid. "Fritz" guns busy about 11 P.M fired a great number of Shells.
(17) Great thaw sets in, oceans of mud to splash about in D and B Coy left "Gap Trench" about 4.30P.M. and arrived in front line about 2 hours later, releiving the 46th Bn. Trenches in very bad condition, mud about a foot deep to wade about in. Our :Lewis Gunners pretty busy to night, "Fritz" fires a few fish tale Bombs but no damage done.
(18) Sunday. The boys indulge in a little snipeing this morning. Others at work improving the trenches. Enemy fire a few fish tail Bombs this evening Young Hobbs was killed 2 other lads wounded. Stan Coombes, Rocky Adam myself out on Patrol to night for about 2 hours, wee bit uncomfortable creeping about in the mud from Shell hole to shell hole.
(19) Makeing preparations for our raid on Enemy trench. Went along with Major Perry Capt Knox to Bn H.Q. at "Pilgrims Way" in connection with to nights work. Since the thaw set in the ground has been in a terrible state, mud being knee deep in many places. About 9P.M A. C. Coy began taking up their places in the line, many men got bogged in the mud. After a consultation between the Officers it was decided to leave it untill the weather conditions were more favourable. So the raid was put off for the time being.