Wed Sept 18
Had a good Breakfast. Porridge and Rissoles. Went before M.O. at 9 and am marked for Med Board tomorrow. Good dinner. Roast meat, cabbage, Potatoes, onions, Pudding. Issued with Tin Hat, new book, etc.
After dinner was Paid 20 Frances. I went to the Church Army Hut ti write some Letters, but thought I?d better wait till tomorrow to see how I get on at the Board. Saw Bill Watson.
Thur 19
Raining again. Muster Parade. They are rounding up the A.W.L's and Leave to Havre is stopped for 3 days. Had Curried Rabbit for Dinner; which was very nice. After Tea took a stroll along to see Bill Watson, who is working in the Officer's Cook House. 
Went up before the Blacksmith for a Board. It was the usual FARCE and he marked me for "Light Hospital duty", so now I shall be messing around on Hospital duties.
Went up to Post Office to see W.O. Whitelaw, and he said that unless I was marked B class he could not put me on Postal duty. The ways of the Army are certainly strange.
Fri 20
The rats had a night out last night and I passed a very restless night. Pottering about a Camp is enough to drive a man to drink. After Tea I went for a stroll into the village. The country round here is very pretty. Beautiful shady woods and lanes. The leaves are beginning to fall, and winter draws near.
Sat 21.
Rained heavily all night. The W.O. told a chap named Biddle, and I to report for duty to the Dentist's place. I am pottering around in the workshop making false teeth, and Biddle (3 F. Amb) is working in the vulcanising room. We get a pass any day we like so I went to the Sports after Dinner and from there on to Le Havre. 
Saw about 2000 Yanks march from the Boat to the Train on their way to the Line, and very well they looked. They carry very awkward looking packs.
Sun 22. 
Raining again. Did about an hours work at the Dental Hospital and got another pass to the City. Had Tea at Y.M. There are plenty of Yanks in the City and they seem a very decent crowd.
Mon 23. 
Cold, wet day. Busy time at Dentists. They turn teeth out just like a butcher turning out sausages. It's a pretty constant Job. Went up to Church Army Hut at night and wrote Letter 37 to M.S.
Tues 24. 
About 6 of the S/Sgts in the Dental Workshop are going over to Blighty for duty and their places are being filled by men from Blighty. All the 1914 men are going home for 6 months leave and they are arriving at the Base in big numbers, getting ready for the great event. The war news continues good. The Turks and Bulgars are getting shook up now.
Wrote Mother.
Hughie Reid is in the Tent with me.