
at Anzac took part and passed thus far from wounds by shot and shell; for many a Briton many a Turk prone in the sand and side by side have been laid on days so numerous during the just ended six months. Mars, Mars, is as much the bane of mortals today as ever, though we have had mongst us those who professed so much faith in the animal man as to shout out loud: "We are becoming too enlightened in this twentieth century to offer the lives of men to decide any dispute whatever." Poor deluded creatures. How little they knew themselves and others? As there is war, I do earnestly thank God that he has allowed me to live long enough to visit the scene, in European Turkey, wheron has been born a New Australia, to be eye witness to the gallant sons, who have come from every part of the Commonwealth. To him who has fought there I shall always be prepared to salute or doff my hat.
The Turk is given by our men a certificate to the effect that there could be no more worthy foe or more honourable opponent.
Dr Henry from Grafton has been for some hours with me. We talked of you, Coffs Harbour & many other subjects in which you have like concern with us. He is a bright chirpy chap well informed in litterature and the current subjects of today.
Fancy John Haynes in parliament again? And for Larkin's Constituency.
Goodbye. Good luck. May Fortune of her best bestow upon your family, your interests & yourself, and may her eldest daughter ever be a stranger to each of you.I amYours TrulyJohn B. Nash
Franked[indecipherable]P J MacNamara EsqCoffs Harbour
[John Haynes (1850-1917), journalist and politician. He worked for several country newspapers, moved to Sydney in 1873, and in 1880 started The Bulletin magazine with Jules Francois Archibald.Edward Rennix Larkin (1880-1915), NSW politician, rugby league footballer, and administrator, killed in action at Lone Pine 25 April 1915. A letter and postcard from Edward Larkin are in the State Library's collection, in A 2660 Volume 1, letters written on active service, A-L, 1914-1919.]
