
(Saturday 17th)We had physical drill this morning on the forecastle head till breakfast time rest of day we were out in the boats and playing cards. Have to go on guard at 5.45 pm for 24 hours had first post This ship is one of the British India line she has a coolie crew. Very cold to night came off post at 8 Oclock(Sunday 18th)On guard still will get relieved to night at 6 pm. Got orders to shift our lodgings to some other ship. I wonder when we will get settled down.Leaving Itria tomorrow Well we are about to get relieved off guard. We will have to break our bedroom up in the morning. There is a concert to night but it was not up to much Went to sleep listening to Co(Monday 19th)Pulled down our house and left everything as we found it and got into lighters at 7.30 (Am) We are tired of waiting to be taken away Its now dinner timeand no sign of any      going aboard to have dinner. The boat came at 6.30and all got aboard of her and started for the      MacGillvray arrives onboard of her 8(pm) Sleeping on deck here also All coolies for crew here also going to sleep alongside of the funnel to night(Tuesday 20th)Had a very warm bed heat from fires kept me restless all night We have nothing but bully beef and biscuits. The 8th and one Coy of the 7th Batttalion are on board and they are very packed Had a game of cards with Mac It is starting to spit rain now and looks like as though its set in for the night Raining now and have no shelter so will just have to roll up in blankets and trust to them to keep the rain out.(Wednesday 21st)Went on fatigue to get some amunition moved out ready for handling This ship is loaded with Large amunition and small arm stuff Some of the Artillery gunners came aboard and fused a lot of 18 pound shrapnel shells and as they finished fusing them we stacked the boxes up for heaving out We have also thousands of kerosene tins full of water to land so we must be going to make a move soon by the look of things. We are going to have a fine night. The 8ith battalion band plays     everything from 7 pm till 9 oclock.