[Page 37]
Sunday 2 January 1916Church Service today, not feeling too bright.  Wrote Home also to Col. Fuller.Old Soldiers in Hospital are a source of real trouble &amp;amp; annoyance to the medical Profession in so far as to let the novice into the tricks of securing a passage Home.  Among this common dodges patients make up small rolls or Balls of ordinary Soap, &amp;amp; then cut swallow same.  The result is that the Heart beats furiusly &amp;amp; the temperature rises, &amp;amp; the Drs. are at a loss to know how to treat the invalid, the result is Discharged Malinger.
Monday 3 January 1916Daily Examination by Dr., raining all day, large numbers of men both coming &amp;amp; going each day.Others patients try to sham Deafness &amp;amp; loss of voice, &amp;amp; back ache.  Others again try to be insane, whilst a goodly number inflict Bodily Harm by shooting themselves in the Hand or feet.  The penalty if caught is severe, but many still try the old dodges &amp;amp; some get through.
Tuesday 4 January 1916Examined by Dr. today &ndash; asked to be allowed to leave &amp;amp; return to Regiment.  Granted.  I went to Maadi &amp;amp; saw Col. Fuller who willingly agreeded to take me back as His Batman, returned to Hospital at 7 p.m.  The thought of getting away from Hospital Life is pleasant, for though they treated me Hansomely, too much of a good thing becomes tiresome.  This Large German Hotel is certainly very handy for convalesents who soon get strong after a few weeks of good food &amp;amp; gentle exercise.
Wednesday 5 January 1916Got my discharge from Helouan Al-Hayat Con. Home.  Came direct to Maadi Camp &amp;amp; took up my Duties with Col. Fuller.  He occupies a one roomed stone Hut built by Lieu Chisholm.  Everything in Camp is upside down owing to Regiment just arriving in from Oasis Camp at Heliopolis.  Letters arrived from Home &amp;amp; Mrs. Robson &amp;amp; Miss Sarginson.There are very few of the Old Hands now in Camp, as many have returned to Aus. or died at the Front.
