 [Page 179] 
 Thursday 7 September 1916 Col. Fuller out to see Capt. Stracker &amp;amp; Capt. Chisholm. I went out to Choubra Village. Gardens at night to Concert.  The concert committee in Cairo are to be congratulated upon giving the men in town a great deal of Pleasure.  Every night something interesting is arranged at either the Gardens or Hostel, &amp;amp; the attendance must be gratifying to the members who contribute. 
 Friday 8 September 1916 Capt. Chisholm left this morning for El Maler. Mrs. Chisholm who has been staying at Shepards for some months past leaves soon for England.  She has taken a deep interest in the work of Hospital visitation, &amp;amp; serving both Officers &amp;amp; men in other ways. Brig. Gen. Antill who was in Charge of the 3rd Brigade has gone to England to take up some staff position. 
 Saturday 9 September 1916 Col. Fuller, Capt. Stracker &amp;amp; Nurses out to see Camel procession conveying Carpets to Mecca.  This is a Religious custom of the Mohammeds who yearly spent 5 or 6 thousand Pounds in connection with this ceremony.  The Specticle was a Gorgeous one &amp;amp; many thousands lined the Streets &amp;amp; Square where the procession formed up.  Under the shadow of the Citidel this morning, the Camels loaded with the rich &amp;amp; costly Carpets accompanied by Music circled round the representitive of the Sultan 7 times &amp;amp; then slowly headed for the city.  The arrival of the Governor of Cairo at 10 a.m. was announced by the firing of 21 guns (4 a minute) &amp;amp; the band playing the National Anthem. On leaving the Square the procession was Headed by Men carrying Bags of new Egyptian Coin &amp;amp; these were scattered broadcast among the onlookers.  The Camel conveying the Carpets was richly decked with Tapistry which fell around a square structure that was erected on the back of the beast.  Behind came a Gentleman riding on an Arab Pony &amp;amp; in front of Him was a silk Cushion with the Key of the Temple of Mecca resting. The whole ceremony was carried out without a hitch. 
