 [Page 121] 
 Sunday 28 May 1916 Compulsory Church parade, very Hot weather.  Col. Fuller &amp;amp; Col. Onslow trying to arrange for Wet Canteen for the men. General Chavel is in Cairo. Lieu. Huxtable left yesterday for Port Said. Lieu. Marks went to Kantara also. Ambulance Cars &amp;amp; Lorries continually up &amp;amp; down the Road.  Sand Bag entrenchments &amp;amp; Barb Wire entanglements surrounding different Camps here.  Indian Camel Corps pass through loaded. Writing Home today. 
 Monday 29 May 1916 Posted Letters. Our Brigade commenced erecting Covering Sheds for the Horses under the direction of the R.E.  B Squadron went to Kantara for Swim, also Lieu. Chisholm, M.O., Ted &amp;amp; Burke.  Water supply cut off today owing to repairs.  We hear that the 4th Batt. &amp;amp; 18th Batt. are practically annialated in France.  Brig. Ryrie has gone to Cairo. Col. Fuller inspecting Camp &amp;amp; Lines. A Col. of the A.M.C. in Camp looking at Kitchens &amp;amp; out-Buildings.  Incinarators &amp;amp; Grease traps are now Built for all refuse. 
 Tuesday 30 May 1916 Major Bruxner field Officer.  Regiment working at the Sheds today. One of the Transport Drivers named Collins was kicked on shin by Horse, Leg Broke.  Ambulance conveyed Him to Hospital. Col. Fuller in Camp all Day. C Squadron under Capt. Ferguson out to Dueidar for Couple of Days. There is a rumour that the 6th, 7th &amp;amp; 12th L.H. may go dismounted to France soon making a N.S.W. Brigade.  Much depends upon the future movements of our Troops in France, as to whether we will eventually go there.  It seems more likely that all the L.H. will partrol Egypt. 
 Wednesday 31 May 1916 Col. Fuller inspecting Camp. News came through that the N.Z. &amp;amp; 1st L.H. Brigade had encountered Turks outside Bir-el-Ab, &amp;amp; killed 20 &amp;amp; wounded some.  Two slight Casualties on our side. Col. Fuller, Col. Onslow, M.O. 7th &amp;amp; Capt. Stracker went to Kantara by Brigade Motor this afternoon. Col. Fuller dining with 7th Regiment tonight. I went to Hill 40 for Mess Stuff. Men still working at Sheds. Posted letters to A. Stewart &amp;amp; Mrs. J. Coleman, Stroud, N.S.W. 
