 [Page 109] 
 Sunday 7 May 1916 General Chavel &amp;amp; party here. Brigade left Camp here at 1-30 p.m. for Qualia, Orgratina &amp;amp; --- where the Enemy is supposed to be, passed numbers of Graves &amp;amp; some Dead Turks lying about decomposed.  Stayed 2 hours at Qualia &amp;amp; arrived at Orgrantia 11 p.m., stood to Horses throughout night. Both Water &amp;amp; Feed was brought along by Camels, also 2nd L.H.F. limber came with light Carts &amp;amp; Slides in the event of a scrap. The long line of Troopers 4 abreast in absolute silence presented in the still night an impressive spectacal. 
 Monday 8 May 1916 Left Orgratina at 4 p.m. for Bir-el-Abd very open &amp;amp; Bleak Country, heavy sand &amp;amp; pulling difficult &ndash; arrived at 8-20 a.m. with 6th Reg. as advance party.  Sighted Enemy Protrol, otherwise the place deserted, the only evidence of their recent stay was fresh tracks &amp;amp; Trenches.  Major Fuller &amp;amp; body Guard went 3 miles further out to inspect, caught two Bedwin prisoners.' The Brigade left at 11-15 a.m. on their return journey, all arrived at Romani by nightfall.  Both Horses &amp;amp; men had a severe trip.  Outposts as usual at night.  Received 2 letters from Home. 
 Tuesday 9 May 1916 Outposts &amp;amp; Protrols as usual, men digging wells for Infantry Battion. who arrive in day or two. Major Bruxner Field Officer. Doing a bit of washing &amp;amp; writing Home. Owing to the line being laid so near Romani Camp, our Details at Anzac Siding shift camp to spot where Train unloads being within 2 miles of our present Quarters. 
 Wednesday 10 May 1916 Everything Quiet in Camp. Major Fuller &amp;amp; Gen. Ryrie out to Rail Head which is now within 1&frac12; miles of our Camp. General Ryrie's Horse (Rainbow) very lame owing to thorn running in near fetlock. A Protrol went to Ogratina &amp;amp; report "all clear". More Wells sunk &amp;amp; pumps erected, water very Brakish. Pardre Mullins (R.C.) over from 5th Regiment on visit. Major White went to Cairo for Health reasons.  Reed went to Kantara. 
