
Thursday 3 August 19162nd L.H. Brigade left Camp at 2-30 a.m.  Our Screen came in touch with Enemy 2 miles this side of Katia.One N.Z. was killed & 3 horses shot.  The Turks are in force around Katia & an attack is expected at any moment.Two of our Officers were on night partrol to-night with a Troop of N.Z.  The Turks took the N.Z. by suprise & during the night surrounded them & killed most.  Word received at 1-30 midnight to Stand to Horses, as Enemy was approaching.Large Bodies of Infantry are coming from Kantara to support us.
Friday 4 August 1916At 2-30 a.m. sniping commenced & at daylight the Enemy attacked E. Maler.  The engagement was severe & the L.H. found themselves in some tight corners.  All Day the Scrap continued & at nightfall the Enemy retired.  Among the killed was Oliver of M.G.  Wounded, Perry,. Major Windeyer of 7th.  Brig. Royston had a bullet enter his knee but continued supervising operations.  At nightfall Col. Meredith took charge of our Section, & He proved to be a miserable sort of creature.Taubes violently Bombed R.H. & different camps, hoping to hit our big Guns but little damage was done.
Saturday, 5 August 1916At 4-30 a.m. we commenced Scouring the Country for Enemy.  Many Turks surrendered & others were found wounded & helpless.  At 2-30 p.m. orders were out to take Katia.  The 6th, 7th & N.Z. did splendid work but at nightfall had to retire.Col. Fuller, Col. Onslow, Rock, & about 20 others of our Reg. were wounded, & 6 killed.  The Enemy were in strong force at Katia & had many machine Guns.  They also severely shelled us with high Explosives & Shrapnel.  Most remarkable very few Horses were hit.  Strong reinforcements on the Turks side assisted in keeping us from entering Katia, & we returned to Camp at El Maler about 9-30 a.m.The Col. though badly wounded in thigh rode to Camp over rough ground about 6 miles.  We took Him to 2nd L.H. F. Ambulance at once, but the Dr. would not extract Bullet as it was embedded behind knee. He will be evacuated to Pt. Said to-morrow.  The L.H. are knocked up owing to no sleep or food.  Water was very scarce & the heat during day went hard with both man & Beast.Later.  The Official Casualty list for 6th Reg. is 8 killed & 45 wounded.  The 5th Reg. on right flank ran into a number of Enemy entrenched.  6 Officers of Reg. were wounded.  The Turks left a large quantity of
