
Sunday 15 October 1916Church parade this morning, Major Anderson in Charge.Capt. Teece Chaplain of our Regiment decorated with the Military Cross, a Distinction well deserved during His term with us.  He proved to be a man of Sterling worth during the Romani & Katia engagements both in attending the wounded on the Battlefield & keeping in direct touch with all in trouble.  He lived to smooth the rough pathway of the men, & all agree that the distinction is well deserved.  Whilst that is true I confess that the High opinion I held for Clasps & Medals has been shattered mainly on account of the Cheap & easy way they are won.  If Bravery & Devotion to Duty receive special mention, I believe every man who has followed Our Colonel realizes that He has earned recognition for the way in which the Troops were Handled & encouraged during the recent Fights.  If General Chavel does not recognize our Colonel's true worth, the men of the Regiment do, & to-day He is surrounded by their confidence & affection, which after all is the Highest Honour.
Monday 16 October 1916Throughout Egypt every Soldier over 21 yrs. has a vote on Conscription.  After recording mine, Harris & I went to Kantara, & I went on to Pt. Said to purchase Canteen Goods.  Returned to Hill 70 tonight - Col. Fuller went by 1 oclock Train to Cairo with Capt. Stracker & Gen. Ryrie.
Tuesday 17 October 1916I went with Limbers to Kantara for Goods, but they had not arrived.  Went on to Port Said, & had a great time on the Harbour with the Coast Guard inspector in His Motor Launch.  Saw Serg. Wilson & then had Dinner with Mr. Hardy.  Stayed there to-night.
Wednesday 18 October 1916Arrived from Port Said by 9-15 a.m. Train.  Met Bob Dickson at Kantara & saw Goods loaded for Hill 70.  Met Col. Fuller at Station & went with Him to Headquarters Canal Defences where an enquiry was held at 12 noon on Hospital arrangements.  After giving evidence both the Col. & myself went to Cairo by the 7-30 p.m. Train.  Stayed the night at New Khedival H.  General Frith was the principal Officer at the Enquiry, & heard the different men's statements.  See leaf.
