 [Page 113] 
 Sunday 14 May 1916 Eary  Church Service (Voluntary). Much cleaning up to be done owing to visit of General Cheval. Major White of No. 3 Mounted Rifles has arrived &amp;amp; taken over Brigade Major from Major Anderson who returns as B. Squadron Leader.  General Chavel &amp;amp; Gen. Godley came over from Div. H.Q. &amp;amp; inspected work on Coast.  Did not come near the Camp. The Camp at Rail Head will be known as  Post Kilo 38 . General Ryrie inspecting Camp this Evening. Very Hot winds &amp;amp; weather. Fresh meat issue today. 
 Monday 15 May 1916 6th A.L.H. under Col. Fuller with N. Zealanders on Left &amp;amp; 5th A.L.H. on Right leaving today at 2 p.m. for Bir. Bayud. General Godley &amp;amp; Chavel out on inspection. Wrote Home.  Taking pump &amp;amp; Troughing to Qutla for Horses. Arrived at Qulia at 4-30 p.m., camped till 7 p.m. when the Regiment quietly moved 6 miles to El Sagia where we camped for night. Camels conveying water &amp;amp; food came to Sagia with us also the 2nd L.H. Field Ambulance with the Sand carts.  The night was clear &amp;amp; warm. 
 Tuesday 16 May 1916 Left Sagia at 3-15 .m. for Bir Bayud &amp;amp; after 5 hours in Saddle arrived on the outskirts 8-15 a.m.  Air o plane came over to view surrounding Country.  The Day was very hot with hot winds.  After the Col. &amp;amp; advance party inspecting the position they destroyed Troughing &amp;amp; other property of the Enemys, &amp;amp; saw in distance about 10 Turks with a number of Camels.  Orders to return at 10-15 a.m. came to hand, &amp;amp; after a severe &amp;amp; distressing trip all &amp;amp; Sundry arrived in Camp at Romani at 11 p.m.  The Col. being last in.  Both Horses &amp;amp; men were knocked up &amp;amp; a number dropped from Exhaustion.  The Ambulance had a busy time with the sick men.  Officers suffered likewise, Capt. Ryrie, Capt. Cross, Lieu. Pearce, Major Bruxner. 
 Wednesday 17 May 1916 Ambulance took the sick through to Rail Head today, 4 being very bad, 2 or whom are N.Z. Col. Fuller writing report of yesterday's operations, Capt. Huxtable making a sketch of different spots.  Major Bruxner 2nd in command as Major White is still away.  The 7th Regiment was to go on a similar Stunt today, but it has been cancelled. 
