everyone having enjoyed the outing very much.
April 18th 19th Mond.
Went out shooting quail this afternoon along with D S. We got the loan of two guns and cartridges from Abdul the restaurant keeper and in peace times, guide to tourists. He was a fine type of Arab, could speak several languages, and was very intelligent. Along with Mahammed who went with us to raise the game we wandered over Abduls crops. A few birds were raised but the excitement of the moment and the fact we had not handled a gun for a long time we aimed blindly, or the bird was out of range before we had time to fire. We had almost given up hope of bringing down any game when S. by a chance shot hit one a short distance away.
In our endeavour to secure the bind we wandered into somebody else's ground and a native woman came out and shouted all sorts of things in her native tongue at us. Mohammed know what she said we did?nt, but one could gather from her gesticulations and excited manner that their was trouble brewing for us if we went much further. We got the bird and returned home.
The birds are very small and so that their would be enough for us all we decided that Abdul should provide us with two birds each, cook them, and we then had a delightful tea on quails very nicely done up.
We had our photos taken. The solitary 


 quail, about half a dozen natives and the "gallant sportsmen".
In the evening D.R I hired donkeys from the donkey boys who are always to be found at the foot of the Pyramids. As a rule the boys belonging to the donkeys run behind to goad the donkeys on. We asked them to allow us to have the donkeys to ourselves for the time being. This was disartrious to me at least. We went up to the Sphinx, the donkey moved along all right there as the boys happened to be behind. After the boys left us I could not get my donkey to go at all. I hammered it with my cane till the cane broke in two. With the small piece that was still left in my hand I hammered till making a desperate blow at his hind quarters I missed,almost upsetting myself off the donkey and the piece of cane flew out of my hand. Being left with nothing in my hand I took off my leather belt and wallopped him with this formidable whip, but to no avail. So long as he was going away from his station he was as stubborn as the proverbial mule. Giving the game up as hopeless, and turning his head homewards I reached the station in double quick time. Whither the donkey or I was more pleased I do not know. I don't think it could be any more pleased than myself. We'll call it quits.
April 20th, 21st 22nd 23rd 24th 25th Sund.
Spent the afternoon in Esbekiah Gardens Cairo. A Territorial Brass Band was