from the streets were awful.
We were bombarded with hawkers selling P.P.C. beads, cheap jewellery and feathers. These things looked attractive in the hands of the hawkers but once in your own possession their value seemed to decrease until ultimately one began to wonder why they had bought such rubbish. To a "greenhorn" these natives have a way with them, so persevering, so pursuading that they draw the money out of you in spite of yourself.
Met a Seaforth Highlander walking along the street. I made enquiries at him as to the station of his regiment. He stated the regiment had gone to France and that he had heard they had got a cutting up there. My reason for making the enquiries was to see if John was stationed anywhere near.
The usual quota of boatmen selling fruits etc. surrounded the ship. There was in addition a boat containing a string band who entertained us with some fine music then asked for a collection.
A youngster of 11 or 12 years of age also entertained us with some marvellous tricks.
We left Port Said between 5 and 6 p.m.
Jan 14th Thu.
Sailed into Alexandria 8 a.m. Big number of ships in the harbour. A one time Sultan's Palace stands right in front of the harbour.


 Endeavoured to get leave ashore but had no luck in that respect.
Jan 15th Frid.
Got up early in order to go to Cairo but not having entered my name over night no pass was available. Only a select few get to know of these things, I notice. Cliques which to my mind are disgusting.
However, later in the day I got a pass to go to Alexandria and had a glorious time.
I did not go to the native quarters this time but found my way to the European part and considered Alex - to be a fine city.
We were taken to various places of interest by young men who were students. We spent a very pleasant hour or two walking through the museum. Ancient Egyptian statues, jewelley, minimum 2000 year old etc. were to be seen here.
We strolled through a beautiful garden in which were the ruins of an ancient castle said to have been built in 108 A.D.
We had not the annoyance of streetsellers pestering the life out of us to buy, in this city. A fine square is to be found in the centre of the city.
The sail over to the "Kyarra" and vice versa in the small boats was not altogether a pleasure owing to the eratic movements of the boatmen.
The U.S.A. warship "Tennecale" was in the harbour near by us. The streets of Alex ? were very busy