that there was something the matter with me. I soon realised that sea sickness had me in its grip. Had a few hours respite from it during the day, engaged in baggage carrying, thinking by this means to work of any liklihood of an attack of sickness again. All to no avail for I was barely done with that work when a more severe attack of sickness took hold of me. I got down below to our sleeping quarters and I felt so miserable and wretched that I could not fix up my hammock properly. A mate, the name of Middleton, assisted me to fix up the hammock. After it was fixed up we discovered that the hammock belonged to him and not to me and he was just about as helpless as myself with sea-sickness. 
He took pity on me however, and assisting me into the hammock he quitely went below the table and slept there all night.
Nov 27th
Arose feeling much better, on duty as mess orderly. Received a letter from home which stated George Stevenson had been killed in France. Wrote a few letters home. Late in the evening we passed the "heads" near Melbourne. Slept up on deck this evening. There was a very strong breeze blowing but we were fortunate in having plenty of blankets.
Nov 28th Sat
When we awoke in the morning we had anchored near Port Melbourne.


 At 8 o'clock we gradually moved up the river Yarra Yarra.
When we got into the Quay a very amusing thing happened. A number of people had congregated, apparently anxious to see friends who were aboard. As the ship slowly moved into the quay these people made to get near the ship but all to no avail. They were stopped by the picket at the point of the bayonet. I noticed the picket were dressed in kilts. Even at the point of the bayonet, they tried to pass but the pickets were obstinate and the look of chagrin on the people and the merriment of the soldiers aboard were a peculiar contrast. 
The members of the units from South Aust ? and Victoria arrived on board. All is hubbub amongst them in getting their gear abroard.
In the afternoon we had leave from 2 o'clock till 12 midnight. Had to return to ship at 6 o'clock owing to having been picked for guard.
Making the most of the time we had in hand, we strolled along the principle streets of Melbourne. The streets of Melbourne are much wider than those of Sydney and they show off the large buildings to advantage and give the city a fine appearance.
We went into the Railway Station and bought a "Sydney Telegraph" for the previous day. On opening the newspaper we found a couple 


 of large photographs, the "Kyalla" at the Orient Wharf and also as it sailed out of the harbour.
Got back in time to go on guard. Full pack up and marched to the guard room there to remain for 24 hours.
Nov 29th Sun.
A quiet day. Presbyterian Service was held on the Wharf and was attended by Sisters and by men.
Nov 30th Mon.
Relieved from guard. After a good deal of manoeuvering in order to avoid being put on fatigue work by the N.C.O. we managed to get leave. This we were justly entitled to. A few of us were marched to the city and dismissed to go our own way. .
After parading the streets for a short time we boarded the car for St. Kilda. This is a splendid run. We returned by another route. On our way back a (four) lady, I expect attracted by us being dressed in uniform got into conversation with us. She showed us a walking stick which she said had been made out of a piece of wood of Nelson's ship. It also had a band near the handle with a figure of Nelson on it. She was a French lady and and she gave us an invitation to visit her as she had a large number of curios there. We could not accept the invitation, however.
We had dinner in Sargents? and then went out with one of our party to a suburb called 


 Richmond. In the evening we went to the "Tivoli". It was a [indecipherable] provoking entertainment. Arrived back to the ship about 12 o'clock.
Dec 1st Tues.
Doing fatigue work on the wharf shifting stores. Got leave at 5 o'clock. There is not any hope of getting either on or off the ship without a pass. The bayonet is fixed and pointed at everyone, officer and private alike until the pass is examined.
Went to the "Royal Theatre". The piece which was entitled the "Yellow Ticket" was a play of very great power.
Dec 2nd W.
Paraded for kit inspection. Had leave from about 1 o\clock. Walked along the banks of the Yarra Yarra for a bit.
Visited the Aquarium and spent a most interesting time there. There are many fine exhibits there and entertainments were going on at various places during the day.
Dec 3rd Th.
Fatigue work scrubbing and polishing in the Hospital on board the ship. Later, down the hold shifting tins full of biscuits. The place was dark and there was very little room to work. We had to double ourselves up to work. We were out of sight of the N.C.O,'s so had some jolly good fun.
Dec 4th F.
Put on to the Sanitary Squad for a week along with four others 


 to look after the sanitary arrangements of the ship. Each unit to take a turn at this work.
Issued with Rubber Shoes and old leather belts.
Notice to the effect tha the "Kyarra" is to sail the next day, Saturday 2 o'clock.
Got leave and went into Melbourne for a final visit. We went to see the comedy "The Girl in the Taxi" and enjoyed it immensely.
Dec 6th Sat.
Early this moring the P.O. came down to our sleeping quarters and found a large number of the men in hammocks after Reveilie" had sounded, half an hour previously.
He went upstairs in a rage and ordered the bugler to sound the "fall In". The result was a large number failed to put in an appearance. Those who turned up were taken out for a march. Those who did not turn up were paraded before the O.G. and given a word of comfort.
Some of them discovered that they were put on extra picket, later, and put it down as a punishment for being late. After dinner we paraded in full dress. Marched to the Royal Park and treated to drinks by the Officers. Got back to the ship about 5 o'clock and found a large number of people waiting to see the ship go out.
Moved off from the wharf at a quarter past six. The send off was partially spoilt owing to the people being kept off the wharf. 


 until the gainway was raised. Cinemtograph operators were present. 
I enjoyed my time in Melbourne very well. I like the kind of people there. They to my mind are very like the people of the Old Country.
Received a letter from George this evening.
Dec 6th Sunday.
Rose this morning feeling very sick. Lay on deck nearly all day. Attempted to take any food at meal time. No sooner had I partaken of any food, than I had to make a bee-line upstairs and empty it over the side of the ship again.
Dec. 7th M.
A repetition of the previous day.
Dec 8th Tu.
Feeling in splendid form this morning. S.F. then a lecture by one of the M.O.s.
Spent the remainder of my time reading, "The Magic of Love" by Annie Swan. A very stiring story. Everyone seems to have recovered from there sea-sickness. Entertaining times are given by amateur musicians of which there are a few and good sport is also given by boxing bouts amongst the men. At least the onlookers enjoy it.
Dec 9th Wednesday.
Physical drill on deck 6.30 this moring. S.F. lecture 2 o'clock. Speculations as to the time we are likely to arrive in Fremantle. The general opinion is Friday night.