A Methodist Chaplain gave the address. The advice was simple and very hearty. Pass the Cocos Island at 12 o'clock today. It was near these islands that H.M.A.S. Sydney sank the German Raider "Emden".
These last few days have been exceedingly hot. There is a very sweaty smell about the troop deck. The lightest attire is being worn by the men. In spite of that fact still the perspiration comes pouring out of us.
The "flying Fish" about here seem to be much larger than the ones we previously have seen. On guard tonight. The nights are very cool and refreshing on deck. Down below where the troops sleep it is very, very hot.
Monday Dec 21st
When I was in these parts earlier in the year it was very cold. This time the weather is hot.
A notice is posted up to the office that "Father Neptune and his team" are to pay us a visit on Thursday at 2.30 in order to meet with new acquantance and to see old friends.
Travelled 233 miles today.
Lantern lecture by Col. Nash tonight. XRay slides showing the circulatory apperatus was very instructive to us.
Dec 22nd Tue. M.O.
Read "The Resurrection" by [indecipherable] Tolstoi. A splendid story treating of a very delicate subject.
Concert tonight.
Dec 23rd Wed. Phy. D.


 Kit inspection on the boat deck. At the request of the men, instead of meat being issued to us at every meal a supply of jam is to be given instead. 
Sports today for the men. Had a headache which prevented me from taking any great interest in the sports.
A heavy wave came in through the port hole damaging a great deal of music which was lying on the table. A couple of wind sheets clashed on the floor also.
Dec 24th Thu.
Paraded along with thirty others to explain why I had lost two shirts. Explained that I had washed them, hung out to dry and they were "pinched" (stolen).
Father Neptune with his wife and train came on board the "Kyarra" at 2.30 this afternoon on the occasion of the "Kyarra" crossing the "line". They were all dressed up in grotesque fashion.
The new acquaintenance, that is, those who had not previously crossed the equator were introduced to "Father Neptune" and his lady. After the introduction ceremony the doctor took the temperature of the new acquaintance with a large wooden thermometor. According to his supposed temperature he was either treated to a dose of cold water or a dose of medicine. To all appearances the medicine was like spirits. The dose was no sooner partaken off then it was 


 spued up again and the grimace of the patient showed it was not "Real Mountain Dew". It consisted of salt and water.
They were then put into the hands of the barber. Soaping them with tar they were shaved with a large wooden razor. Then suddenly the barbers assistants lifted him off the chair and threw him head first into a large canvas bath full of water. Sometimes the patient resisted and in the struggle pulled the assistants with them, causing roars of laughter. After the ceremony some of the Officers and Sisters threw apples and oranges into the bath. Large numbers of the men made to get these apples and oranges with the result that the canvas bath collapsed under the strain and the water flooded all over the deck. It was a splendid afternoons sport.
Dec 25th Fri. Xmas day
F.D. Service held, being on Duty I was not present. Duck and Plum Pudding for dinner today, cigarettes and pipe issued 100 miles south of Colombo at 12 o'clock today. Little books issued by the Y.M.C.A. very interesting.
A sign that we are reaching a port is the fact that large numbers of the troops are busy writing letters.
Dec 26th Sat.
Sighted land today at 2 o'clock