  
 a triumph of organisation this place is, & what has & is being done - often under shell fire - with no wharves & a very steep hilly & rough country.  We are in exactly the same place as on the first night.  Looking at it now, I sometimes wonder how we ever got here.  In many cases at the Base Record Office in Alexandria, they cannot tell you whether this or that wounded officer or man is in Alexandria or Cairo, or which Hospital he is in.  During the 6 weeks I was in Hospital I never got a single letter from England or Australia.  All the mail was delivered here - the letters of the wounded are marked "Wounded" & returned to Alexandria.  Just to save trouble they are sent in bulk to Cairo (irrespective of the fact that half the wounded in Alexandria are Australians) and there they lie with a large number of Officers & men detailed to stay at the Base who apparently do nothing. 
 At the men's Convalescent Camp in Alexandria, they get no pay, soap or towel & have to scramble for their food.  They eventually return here with no equipment, not even a blanket or overcoat.  In no case is it easy to get back to the Trenches - in other words it is easy for Officers & men not to get back, who wish to scrimshank.  I personally was very lucky.  I heard of a Hospital ship that was returning (they do not carry troops) & without any "By or with your leave" came on it.  It is shameful.  Yet these officers who have none of the heat, dirt, shells, smells & flies & live comfortably with a daily bath or baths will I suppose get C.Bs & C.M.Gs at the end of the war.  At any rate they run no risks of punctured carcases or impaired health. 
 The most criminal - & that is the correct word - of all things & what we feel the most are the Reinforcements that are being sent us monthly to replace losses & wastages in our present 4 Brigades.  Men are actually sent who have never fired a Rifle in their lives.  Yet at any moment they may have to fight for their lives & those of their comrades.  Very few of the Reinforcements are properly trained, & though willing enough, it is somewhat of a risk with the Turkish trenches in many places 50 yards away & in one place 6 feet. 
 I am afraid this letter has been one continual growl, but I thought you would like to hear things as they are, & of the feelings of us who are actually in the Trenches, though I am afraid I have not the power of expression. 
