 [Page 59] 
 Friday 19th September Finished packing, Said "Goodbye" to Col Morshead and others, and left Tidworth finally at 10 am for Richeborough. Journeyed via Basingstoke, Farnham, and Guilford to Gen Sclaters home "Homewood" near Edenbridge &ndash; Kent. Lunched with the General &amp; his wife. Very nice home and garden. The General is an enthusiastic gardener. Left "Homewood" at 3.30 for Richborough via Maidstone, Folkestone, Dover, Deal and Sandwich. Very beautiful country and a nice run. No accommodation at Sandwich. Dined at Bell Hotel. Ascertained no ferry for Dieppe tomorrow so am to embark tonight for Calais instead. Reached train ferry at 8.30pm.  Owing to bad weather off French coast the Master, Capt Griga  decided not to sail to night, and he kindly placed his cabin at our disposal, he himself going to his home at Margate. 
 Saturday 20th September Left Richborough at 8 AM, and disembarked at Calais about noon. Fairly good swell in crossing and I was very unwell, much to the amusement of my wife &amp; son. Filled with petrol and oil, motored on to Boulogne where we lunched at Hotel Folkstone. Continued journey via Saumer, Montreuil (old GHQ) Abbeville and Neuchatel to Rouen, where we arrived about 7.30, and took rooms at the Hotel de la [indecipherable], Rue Jean d'Arc. 
 Sunday 21st September Filled with petrol and oil. Visited Cathedral, Hotel de Ville etc and left for Paris at 10 AM, via Vernon st Germain, and Versailles.  Lunched by wayside near st Germain. Visited Palace and Grounds at Versailles, spending about 2 hours there. Went through most of the Palace including Hall of Mirrors, visited the [indecipherable]  and walked round the ornamental lake. Arrived Paris at 6pm and stayed at Hotel [indecipherable] . 
 Monday 22nd September Moved to Hotel Scribe. In morning visited Church of st Madelene Champs de Elyses, Bois de Boulogne Longchamps racecourse, Chamber of Deputies &ndash; Senate &ndash; Palais de Justice and Notre Dame, returning to Hotel via Louvre, Tuilleries and 
