 [Page 42] 
 Westward and Northward along a most beautiful ravine &ndash; (Sarine river). I have decided to cut out visiting the actual town of Geneve, and will tomorrow go direct northward from Lausanne. I should love to spend a month here. Purchased photos of the chief towns through which we passed. Mileage 199 miles 
 Friday 27th June The morning broke quite clear and though a few showers fell, generally the day has been fine. Left Bulle at 6 am for Neuf Brisach via Lausanne, - Fryborg &ndash; Berne &ndash; Langenthal  and Bale. Again scenery especially good, particularly when dropping down to Vevey and along the shores of Lake Geneva. Hill sides covered with vines, and snow clad mountains dominating the lake. Breakfast a Moulton.   Friborg very pretty, everybody gay, wearing small flaps in honour of peace. Fine suspension bridge over gorge. Arrived Berne at midday. Called on British Consul, and Brig Gen Russell at Legation, he being military attach&eacute;. Very interesting country throughout and intensely cultivated. An abundance of Cherry &amp; Walnut trees. Farming are in many cases manuring their grass paddocks after reaping, with liquid manure. Cashed cheque at Berne. Arrived at Neuf Brisach at 8pm after a journey covering 197 miles. Much heavy hill climbing but not a puncture and no car trouble. Had to buy 5 gallons of petrol at Bale. No difficulties in crossing the border. Total mileage for Swiss trip from Strasbourg to return to the same town tomorrow morning 619 miles. Special features noted on Swiss trip :- Country appears wonderfully prosperous, and fully cultivated. Buildings substantial in towns, and in villages and hamlets of wood typical and substantial design. Towns wonderfully clean. Speaking well for municipal government. Many new buildings just finished and in course of erection. Magnificent scenery &ndash; beautiful flower gardens, and window boxes. 
 Saturday 28th June Left Neuf Brisach at 7.30 am for Mayenne via Strasbourg &ndash; Lautebourg &ndash; Spina &ndash; Manneheim &ndash; Worms and Oppenheim. Leaving Strasbourg had a puncture. 
