
August 1915[Note in margin:] - Friday Mudros Bay6th - Orders first thing in morning saying 38 men & 6 officers to return to Anzac. Kit bags to be left behind. Later an N.C.O. & two men extra to be taken as baggage guard. Bill Adams as usual one. Reports say large number troops landed at Kaba-Tepe. Number given as 80,000 Also stating that Maidos was expected to be Austn HdQtrs within a week. Rather sceptic about same, although its evident that some more is on Nine inch shells falling on beach very frequently. Camp of 3rd L.H.F.A looks deserted, evidently they have also gone. Bought some tobacco off Frenchman for Dave. Choat & Co. not sighted yet, no word of them since leaving. Party went ashore in afternoon taking surplus baggage G.S. Panniers etc Choat & Co had been on island since day after we left. Got filling in tooth replaced. Nr of our chaps ex Maadi on the island. Colonel came aboard & joined us. About 5pm had mail distbtd. Got 8 letters & 1 paper. Must be lot more6th - somewhere. About 6pm we xferred on to 'Prince Sicilian' & left about 7pm. All went well until 1.30 AM when "Crash. Crash, Crash! We ran into another boat about 40 ft from stern. Took few troops that were aboard her off & sent couple of boats she seemed to be settling slowly when we left but do not know if she sunk7th - Was a X'port of about 3000 toms. Hole made in our bow. Not much water made. All troops ordered starboard aft. We disembarked at daylight dawn. & greeted by the usual shrapnel at us. Went up to the 3rd Fld Amb, had sort of breakfast & started stretcher-bearing at 7AM & finished 10PM. Left about a dozen & equipment aboard to come off later. Heavy bombdmt region of Quinn's Post 4 to 5AM. Appears to have been an attack all along our line & three lines of trenches taken. Believe one lost all in afternoon. Bombed out by Turks. Attacks & counters thro'out day. Hard to say what we have gained. Big counter (?) about 8.30 on left. About 40 000 Tommies & Ghurkas landed further up nearer C Suvla