
July 1915[Note in margin:] Wednesday27th - Sent Mater p.c. Bought couple of English papers for Grandma & Also more p.c's from near Barracca Lift for her. Back 9.30 Fight between Lancashire & Welsh men about 10.30pm. Stopped fight owing to different methods of opponents.28th - Breakfast 6am & loading pannier etc before 7pm Scarcity of wagons or drays delayed us. Did not get on Hospital Transport "Karoa" till 10.40am. Seemed a nice boat. About 5000 tons had been cleaned & had only been used as a troopship for a couple of months. Reported that was Indian troop ship. Number of sore heads this morning. Pain, again on board seem to be following one another. Large number (approx 600 or 700) troops aboard, all going to Alexandria to be refitted etc before returning to D'Nells "Isis", fast mail steamer. Brindidi Port Said in port. Karoa seems to be able to cut out speed as well. Left at 12.40pm. Passed small steamer 4pm, Malta bound28th - Anniversary of Declaration of war by Austria on Servia. Does not seem like twelve months ago. Went to bed about 8pm unable to sleep. Karoa Indian troop ship29th - Roused at 5.30am. Indians holystoning deck [scrubbing wooden deck with sandstone]. Karoa looks to be about seven or eight thousand tons & was only commissioned built last March. Speed of 16 knots yesty afternoon. Reported enteric getting bad among the troops. St Andrews Hospital Malta being used for enteric patients. Imtarfa, Blue Sisters, Foriana & other hospitals being used for other cases. Lady told me Malta could accommodate 10,000 cases. Wrote Mater & Molly in afternoon Sea got rough & boat being light, pitched & tossed a lot. Hundreds seasick. Slight touch of it myself, nothing to speak of. Our crowd singing in 2nd Class Smoke Room at night.30th - Nothing of any moment happened at all. Wrote Jeannie in afternoon & got few photos of a group taken at Anzac & sent one to Jeannie Molly & Mater Report that Light sighted at night. Couldnt see it[Servia - 28 July 1914, Declaration of War by Austria on Serbia]
