
The result of the strafe we heard later was four prisoners and many Germans killed, whilst we lost 1 killed and a couple wounded.June 7th 1916, - Joined in the mess formed in the pit and now have supper every night, either eggs, fried and scrambled, or porridge and always good rich cocoa. The pit is wonderfully comfortable with a little stove and four canvas beds made on a wooden framework. The sides are of course sandbags and the roof corrugated iron, covered with earth. We have hessian screens to go across the mouth and also behind the gun so that we can light the fire and have a light each night. After having a good big supper with plenty of the everlasting jokes, all we have to do is to tumble into bed with a sigh of contentment, hoping that both the Boches and our infantry will keep quiet for the night. The two on guard, however, have to stand to each morning from 2.15 to 3.15 as at this period attacks are most likely to happen and all branches of arms in the firing line have to do the same at this hour.June 9th - Usual laying to-day.  To-night Postle and I went across to the old orchard and picked a great heap of rhubarb which we cook overnight and have cold next morning for breakfast.June 9th.- We fired a few shots to-day on aerial observation, but otherwise quiet.June 10th - Quiet all day to-day. Had instruction in C. Pit.June 11th - Had instruction in C. Pit, quiet all day.June 12th - Had to stand to from 12.30 p.m.to about 1.15 a.m. next morning during 1st division raid.June 13th - Went to Bathea to-day - Aeroplane shell failed to burst in air and burst on landing about 15 yards from us.June 14th - Quiet day.June 15th - Did some shooting with aeroplane observation.June 16th - Fired about 32 rounds to-day otherwise quiet. Had machine gun soup for dinner (that is soup made in a hurry)June 17th - Germans put over 100 crumps into the old positions of the 20th cutting up the orchard a treat, and in some cases the force of the explosion has withered the little red current bushes, up to nothing. Otherwise had a very easy day. Received the four parcels from home per the Comforts Fund.