Sat. July 7th Spent a rotten morning at Squad Drill. After Dinner we gave our tin Hats in to get painted. Frank Woods returned from Blighty.
Sunday July 8 Another Air raid on London. That's Bad news. It's nice to know that the Frenchmen shook Krupps up a bit Gen. Holmes killed Billy Holman suffering from shell shock. Fritz is doing some damage this week, but our turn will come. It rained heavily this morning, we had to go to Henencourt again to practise for a display before the King on Thursday. Finished Letter 24 to M.S. also posted her some P. Cards a few copies of the "Tattoo".
 SundayMonday July 9 Mother's Birthday
 Another wet day. Went out to Henencourt again put in some good work preparing for the great event next Thursday. Yesterday Tom Shearer fell foul of Barrisgill he is banned from drilling with the Botts. The weather cleared up after Dinner two scratch Teams played Rugby League. A very enjoyable amusing game.


 Tues. July 10. Went to Henencourt did some more stretcher drill. After dinner we had a very enjoyable game at Cricket.
Wed. July 11th 
 Many Happy returns M.S. 
 Full dress rehearsal for tomorrows display. Artillery, A.S.C, Engineers Infantry, all took part.
Thur. July 12th Glorious sunshiny day. We went out to the Grounds again fell in behind the Artillery. For once we were on the Ground before the14th or 15th.
 The King arrived at 11.45. His arrival was announced by the yells of the mob. George had about a dozen Generals with him. The Infantry gave their display first put up a very fine show. Then came the physical culture crowd. Part of ?em wearing white shorts the rest blue. They formed up on the Ground in the shape of a St George's Cross. The Artillery gave a very fine display. As they were galloping off the grounds, the W.O. got thrown from his Horse. Our show followed the Guns, but was very tame. The King was talking to some Nurses while we got through our performance saw very little of it. We got a good close view of him as he left the grounds in an open car. Our Amb. Waggon got first prize as usual. 


 Friday. July 13th No bloomin? mail in yet. Wonder where the deuce it's got to. 
 Gee! Fritz has broken into our Trenches up North. We must not let him do that too often.
Sat. July 14. Received Letter from Mrs Sam Ibbs. Played Cricket after Dinner. Commenced Letter to Lill 
 Jacko returned from Anzac Work Shop.
Sun. July 15 Took over Sanitary Job again. Today we had 44 men out playing in 4 different matches. 2 Teams played the 1st Fld Amb. won, easily. Another Team played the 15th F.Amb. lost. Then our Soccer Team played the 8 M.G.Co. lost by 6 ? 0. Col. Shepherd most of the officers played Cricket.
 Finished my weekly epistle to Lill, but it was a mighty poor effort. Poor old Girl, she will begin to wonder what is wrong.


 Senlis
 Monday. July 16. Jacko, Towny I got busy made a new Grease trap. It rained lightly at intervals during the day. The mob are going for a Route March tomorrow, but thank the Lord, the Sanitary Police are exempt. Received a nice long Letter from Mrs Jack B.
 Its about time we got some mail from Sydney. Some of the Nightbirds" are out on the track of a Piano. The horses they had in the Amb. waggon bolted, they nearly came to grief. Blanton was aboard, so we can look forward to a full account of it in this next issue of the Tattoo 
 The Piano arrived after Tea we had a sing-song Buck dance in the Mess Hall. It was quite one of the most enjoyable evenings we have spent for some time.
Tuesday. July 19th. We got going today for a Concert at an early date. There is plenty of new Music, we ought to put on a good programme. Payney came back from Warloy. 3 new men have joined us, Billgy May is with us, so our prospects are bright. Last night our Soccer Team played the 8 Mac. Gunners, but were disappointed, as they expected a win, but the final result was Mc.G. 6 ? us - 0


 Wed. July 18. Toby Barton is painting a drop curtain, which should be some class, when its finished.
Thursday. July 19. Anniversary of the Battle of Fromelles our first time in action. Ted Jane busy on a new back scene for our Stage. To celebrate the Ambulance's baptism of shelling, we had Stew for Dinner Bread Jam for Tea. This is one of our Butterless Days.
Friday. July 20 Spent quite a busy day getting ready for tomorrows Concert.
Sat. July 21st Concert in the Mess Hut at 7.30. At this morning's rehearsal Orace fell on his sword got knocked out. Capt. Howard fixed him up. He said that Orace had a touch of hemmorage of the Lungs, so he must have got a nasty knock. He's got the wind up alright, turns pale on my approach.


 Wrote Letter 26 to M.S. 
Sunday. July 22. No mail in yet. It's about time we did get some. Fine, sunshiny day. We had dinner at 11.30. Fell in at 12 amp marched down to Brig. H.Q. where we picked up a Motor Lorry got a ride into Contay. The 14th Brigade were formed up into 3 sides of a Square. Gen. Birdwood presented us with our M.M. ribbons. We had to halt 3 paces from "Birdy", salute, then step forward 1 pace, the Gen. pinned on the medals ribbons. One chap got the Serbian Gold Medal, another the Croix de Guerre. 
(Gen. Hobbes a big crowd of Heads were present Birdy shook hands with us said nice things. Then he marched the Brigade past us. Truly it was some day.
Monday July 23. Our Concert came off in "the Tivoli" It was to have started at 7, but by that time there were only about a hundred in the Building. This was due to some bungling son the part of the Y.M.C.A. chap. The Hall quickly filled as soon as the crowd knew that a show was on. Things went off very well. After the Show the Y.M. gave us a Feed. Jack Edgar, Ted Jane Toby Barton worked very hard all day getting the place ready. Our new scenery looked very fine.
 What's up! Rabbit for Dinner.


 Tues. 24 July. Our show came off much better tonight than last night. The Hall filled up quickly hundreds were turned away. "Oriss, in the sketch was as funny as a Circus.
 We are having a Busy time in the Camp now, getting ready for moving. Jock Toomey's horse tried to do the fly act walk up a steep bank. He fell on Jack knocked his leg about somewhat.
 Wrote too Ruth B. Had Rabbit for Tea.
Wed. July 25th Some Chloride arrived this morning, so it's a pretty good sign that we are moving out. We gave our Sanitary appliance a good whitewashing this morning, so that we can leave the place respectable when we leave.
 We went out to Henencourt after Tea, where our Rugby Team were to play the First Field Amb. but a heavy thunderstorm came on we had to shelter in an Estaminet. Stan Wright I managed to rake up a Franc a half, with which we purchased a Bottle of Swiss Beer. This gave us an excuse for being there.
 Wrote to Sam Ibbs Bacup 
 [Bacup, a town in Lancashire]