[Page 45]
October 1144.Posted today letters of 8th, 9th and today's note to Mother, answering letter from Missing &amp; Wounded re Scottie Leask, and note written at Steenvoorde to Auntie Louie.
45.Toby has "come a gutzer".  In a note to Clarrie dated Oct. 2 from Con. Camp, he expects to be back shortly.  'The damn wound wasn't half big enough, and it healed too quickly.  They never operated on it, I can still feel the piece of shell:  still I'm satisfied, you know it may do for a future occasion.'  Sadness has set in once again:  I've two cigarette buts, four Y.M.C.A. Tickets, and a tray bit, to carry on the good work with.
And Sol had a note from Peter, Peter in Blighty and expecting a board for Australia.  Peter starts the note in writing, then adopts printing then back to writing, a page in all, and all Peter.  "Things are crook' he prints.
46.This afternoon, after parade, I tried the country for a walk.  The sun has been shining clear after days of grey skies and rain.  But the roads are mud, and the country flat, and never a place without huts, or camp or horses or dumps, so back to hut Billet.
Walking the old song of Father's, "In Old Madrid" was running through my thoughts, and strangely, I thought I'd like to hear Hazel play its melody and wondered if her touch was lovely or hard.
Mick's trying to light and set burning well an old battered last winter's brazier.  Wilk, and Archer and Willie are writing, accumulated mail debt of three weeks.
In between blankets,A walk to Ooderdoom with Frank, Arthur and Wilk with our various washing.
Here's tipping two of the stunts M.M.s, Tommy Eldridge and Bill Dunn.  I'd like to see Wilk decorated and Willie Jesmond.  Les Ford may be in the running for Advance Dressing work, RoRy Farlay bearers too.
At midnight Perk and Maj. Lee go on leave to Blighty.  No mail today, or yesterday.
47.  October 12Parade at 9, and dismissed after Roll call, then a green envelope issue, so letters may go home unread by the officers here.
For an hour this morning printing a list of Medical Pannier holdings, and then till now, near midday, reading more of Letters of a Soldier.  They are such letters as I