 [Page 23] 
 Oct. 4 17. A long sleep last night, ended in a queer dream, the Col. at the A.D.S. coming out to the wagon quickly from one of the dugout huts in the building's ruin, asked me if I'd draw him my crest, asked me what it was, it meant, and how it was mine. 
 18. In the dugout last night Tommy and self had the company of three originals of the 12th Batt., they left behind here on water fatigue.  The three of them, Tasmanians, and the chap who slept next to me an amateur runner of pre-warr days. 
 Talking he brought the talk round to a book I'd laid by me, Rhyme(?) of a Red Cross Man.  Jack in the Q.Ms. had unearthed it, and yesterday seeing me with "The City of Fear" loaned it me.  He started then talking of Ginger Mick and The Sentimental Bloke, and he's expecting them from Blighty.  Then came the inevitable Kipling, Service, Dennis, Lawson argument, the argument that always arises, and always dies with nothing approved of the other sides arguing. 
 19. "Oh methinks how slow This old moon wanes."  Shakespeare 
 As we felt the first night in "The House of Fear". 
 20. Killed today &ndash; wounded, then when back at his collecting post, killed &ndash; Maj. Hunt. 
 At Factory Corner &ndash; from Jan. 26 till March's first week, he won his recognition as a brave --:  after the advance from bayonet trench over Luisenhof and past Ligney Thilloy before Bapaume, he was awarded the M.M., for the usual awarding qualities &ndash; bravery in the field, and attention to wounded under heavy shell fire, the causes of decoration, that still keep up the pleasant legend of the sacrifice of the Medical Men.  But apart, after Bullecourt he certainly carried his decoration, and on him it carried with it all it originally stood for.  And the bearers have lost their best leader:  he was as cool and careless under fire as Ernie, no greater praise can be written. 
 With the inefficient and callous weeds we're getting now as Captains &ndash; callow youth rushed through a short course of theory, his loss is more than the loss of 4 of such men as M&mdash;and F--. 
 Col. Williams, Capt. Hughes and Maj. Hunt since December 1916. 