 [Page 31] 
 October 6. Mac is reported only lightly wounded, but the A.D.S. people don't know where he is.  The body of Jack has been found, and by it some of Dick's papers.  Then Serg. Ridge, Transport, says he's heard of Dick's having gone through one of the other Aid posts, wounded. 
 Capt. Davies wounded, and Morrie killed.  Les is all right. 
 Cold grey rain skies, and fine dull rain, now the skies are darkening, and winter is here. 
 Going up with the G.S. Wagon, Marks driving, wrapped closely in my old Greatcoat, issued July '15, Marks silent wondering at the rumour of his brother missing, and I losing it, Ypres road, in a dream of home, and of a wonderful room great and spacious, of large folios and lovely books, and of faded rich colourings, and fine pictures. 
 Coming back Marks silent and thinking of his brother killed, and the dead of these two stunts, my company. 
 On the Poy road  repassed Frank Hungerford going up. 
 October 6-7 28. Mail.. a letter from Court, the second or third in two years. 
 At about 3 this afternoon it rained heavily, and for an hour.  After the sun shone a while, &amp; Ted from tacking went over, and choosing a new grass spot, dug for the putting up of new horse lines, for his pair. 
 Our horse transport lines are deep in churned slush mud. 
 29. In the Sydney Mail of July 11 are two short poems by Alan Seeger, one "I have a Rendezvous with Death" sends my order for his "Poems".  They'll make my reading before I order the 1st edit. of "The Crock of Gold". 
 It maybe he shall take my hand And lead me into his dark land. And close my eyes, and quench my breath &ndash; It may be I shall pass him still. I have a rendezvous with Death On some scarred slope of battered hill, when Spring comes round again this year, And the first meadow-flowers appear. 
 30.  October 7 Back &ndash; 3 p.m. &ndash; from the Menin Road station and Ypres.  The road by Westhoek blown up so traffic stopped.  Raining and windy and bitterly cold.  'Spotty' came with us, and did the long miserable trip in super-misery between Marks and self on the seat &ndash; closely snuggling against wet greatcoats. 