 [Page 105] 
 November 8 5.30 a.m. &ndash; One long rumbling of big gun fire.. suddenly opening from slow speakings along the line.  Shrapnell over Ypres. 
 Anzac Bulletin, Sept. 26 &ndash; from the C.M.D.S&hellip;  Two of the first of Will Dyson's official drawings, "Main Dressing Station, The Fourth" coming out. ! A finely suggestive sketch of Veaux M.D.S. during the Bullecourt stunting last May &ndash; before the station was "shell'd out" and "Memorial to the 4th Battalion, A.I.F." at Pozieres, a sketch that drafts well the barren nakedness of the place, and the few remaining stumps of trees. 
 Photographs in the number include a fine one of a Batt. studying a contour map of the Messines area &ndash; a similar map to the one of the ridge before Passchendaele, by the Devonshire Lines, Ouderdom.  There's a notice in the number that copies of official photographs are obtainable at 1/- each. 
 November 8 113. To leave Belgian Battery Corner today at 2.30, per foot. 
 November 9 C.M.D.S. Dickebusch 114. Beat the Bearers down by 5 minutes:  in A. Section Bearers Marquee.  Arrived here yesterday &ndash; per lorry &ndash; at 2.15. 
 So far I've not joined up the gilded aristocracy:  till we leave here, I'll keep with the Bearers: then join A nursing when I have to. 
 [In margin]  Postage 3.60!! Parcelled up for posting Seeger's 'Poems' and "Certain Noh Plays of Japan" &ndash; to Mrs. Hadley.  From her yesterday's mail brought two photographs &ndash; one of Mother and one of Betty:  neither do them justice:  they're badly finished.  It was very decent getting them and very thoughtful of Mrs. H&hellip;  We hear of all our Christmas mail to Australia being sunk &ndash; in the channel:  all parcels posted between Oct. 15 and 20th so I lose my "City of Fear" and Drinkwater's "Poems" and the presents to Mother and Nat.  "Letters of a Soldier" too?  The 27th Batt. passed the station about an hour ago &ndash; about 9 a.m. 
 Fourty miles by bus:  starting Sunday morning&hellip;  Fourty miles to no-one knows where.  One rumour says 17 kilos from Rouen!.  Another, a big reorganizing camp by Abbeville.  It seems fairly certain though we'll be out of the line for a good month, then back again to a new front. 