
November 21, 23140.In casual talking, today, I hear of Ken Saxby's death.. he killed in the first Menin Road Battle early in Sept.  Blue Herring saw in Ypres Eric and heard it of him.
So another of Australia's finest adventurers finds his early Valhalla.  Requiescat in Pace.  The last time I saw him he was marching with the 3rd Battalion S.Bs...before that at Herrick I drest his wound - a gunshot wound directly over the heart.... before that, we took our 'French leave' together from Liverpool in 1915.
141.  November 23Yesterday a day's leave to Boulogne, a leaving line - 10 of us in all including a driver and rider - in a G.S. wagon,.. 10.30. The day dull, close misted early, grey clouded all day.  Samur we passed through early - a quaint little township - the church by the square close clustered about with fantastick houses, built hard up against the porch, and the stone walls.  It would make a pretty little sketch - colours soft and lovely, tiled roofs of rich shadings, and grey and yellow walls...  Entering the villiage, for the first time in France - some rather fine private houses: new, obviously affecting a compromise between English, American and German styles - and successful in a design rather effective.. perhaps a craftsmanship idea too easily suggests itself, but they are worth the noting.
Then to a half-way house, for Rhum and Malaga..think brown Malaga, and Rhum like Muscat.
Over the cobbled roads, over hills and by valleys, by farmhouses and estaminets, we made a quick trip to Pont de Brique -...from the 5 kilos to Boulogne.- and on arriving at the church square about 12.30...
Early, passing poor houses, strung along the roadway, the Boulogne side of Samur, clattering over the cobbles, the peasants smiled at their doorways and clapped us on, the postman was going his rounds.. passing one poor cottage, just by the door inside stood a sturdy servant girl, reading her letter - her broom handle resting against her breasts.. she was carven of stone - not all our halooing reached her,