
November 23, 24142.Today the sun's out, a cold shining, but a splendid break from the mist that's been over the hills...
Yesterday the rumours were all about Boulogne, and in Merridens an excitement.  The rumour was of Cambrai's fall to us, and prisoners numbering 8000:  of guns captured, and 130 aeroplanes.  For the advance there was no artillery preparation.  Midday today no confirming word has reached us.
Turning in:  a windy, hurrying thin clouded sky, a half moon and a few faint stars for the instant seen, between a running  tide of clouds.  No mail.
143.  November 24Mists blown to fine rain:  over the hills fold follows fold of blown haze. .. Mail.  Chas. Dawson Art  corres. course.. written for from Ecuire.  Posting today for J. Hassall's book:  possibly I'll take his course:  the winter will make any sketching hard, but it will be worth while keeping my hand in.
Should like to make some Portrait sketches, Les or Blue or Frank D.. one of the new chaps, Marks - a fine Jewish face, delicate and aristocratic:  would make fine study.  Of all the new reinforcements he the only promising man - with a 5th Divy L/Cpl., wearing 3 service stripes.. the rest cheap raw numbers.
"Stray Birds" - all loveliness, full of fine epitaphs..."Life is given to us, we earn it by giving it.""The storm of the last night, has crowned this morning with glorious peace."The Burning log bursts into flame and cries - "This is my flower, my Death".
144.Evening.  This afternoon to Desvres for a bath - a bath in a great cemented basin, twice the size of the Bondi baths - and the water warm, hot at the sides - half a Battalion in with us, men of splendid build, browned still from the summer.  Part of the works of a great cement manufacturing...  Will to Desvres the first fine afternoon.
Outside a howling wind, and cold scurrying clouds.  Candles in the Billet blown all ways - all churlessness.  Early for a while the musick of "Chu Chin Chou" was in the long high barn, but the singing died as the wind grew.