
October 29and in the dark night were put into tents in the sand.  One described the desert with the second created word..... "In the morning, we got out of the tent, and saw miles and miles and miles of "-all"!"  Never has the desert been so splendidly described.... from an impressionistic view point.
92.Through the night, bombs in one of the Artillery camps, and shells about the station.. we in our dugout feeling the full concussion of each shell, and harbouring the Inf. chaps shelled out from across the road.
The Boche machine guns turned from his planes on the road, got only two Tommies - both wounds of great worth...
A clear lovely sun....  Coming down the road, an Artilleryman walking between his two horses...in a closely strapped sheepskin, an issue cap comforter, its two square corners standing high above his head, and the foldings slantingly across his forehead... and mud washed wading thigh boots...  a tall slim darkly complexioned boy, black blown hair over his eyes, dried flecks of mud on his face and bare hands....  A myth poem of the Transport and the roads of war.
93.  October 30Yesterday afternoon down to the C.M.D.S. at Dickebusch with Murph for mail:  saw Frank and brought back Alan Seeger's "Poems" - and seeing Tiny, a pair of pyjamas, saw none of the aristocracy, they on nightwork.
Terrible rumours there of an Italian setback - where 70 thousand prisoners were taken.  Frank D. though vouches for its untruth - knowing a "bonzer little Italian in England! - she not a Dago, but her father is!"
A long morning of unending sick parade,.. chloroform and a rainy beastly weather.
94.The T.L. Supplement, 25/10.  The controversy over the original folios of Shakespeare ends with a long letter from the author of the offending volume, including the evidence of Pinero, Jones, and Shaw.  Pinero and Jones have no light to offer, submitting clear flat commonplaceness:  Shaw shines splendidly, and incidentally really offers a rather suggestive theory...which thought upon easily appeals as the actual truth.
I have cut out the letter and have admitted it to the envelope of the journal - with the poetry of M. Forest.