 [Page 77] 
 October 24 
 BELGIAN BATTERY CORNER YPRES 82. Wind blown rain ends the ..I take Kitching's place, he staying back at the Devonshire lines with the Q.M. 
 There we're attached to the 2nd, on fatigue about our overflow post, and a dressing station for local woundings. 
 Twelve of us for the duties of [indecipherable].  Tomorrow on dressings, from 9 till 9. 
 This afternoon on the heaviest fatigues since Sept. 1894&hellip; carrying a long distance heavy logs and [indecipherable] iron for the building of new dugouts. 
 On the Kruisstraat met Jimmy Strange &ndash; he now a one star man:  the last I saw of Jimmy was at the dinner in St. James in Cairo.  He for a school for six weeks -  with weekend leave to Paris every second week. 
 Tonight I meet Costrane, his name I'm not certain of &ndash; or Casteril, I remember by associating, when I first heard it, the Prof. who translated the Iliad or wrote some commentary on it.  First I desired to know him, seeing him in a near tent at Liverpool&hellip;. 
 Of the Bearers, now Toby, Clarrie and Johnno are number 4's, all left of the old bearers of A Section. 
 October 25 83. Writing, in the dressing room dugout, half dopey with chloroform, self inflicted. 
 The aidpost mostly for local sick parades, and dressings only of easy slight types. 
 One of the mornings earlier, a coloured man:  they are employed only where none of us have seen them, only when there is no witness about:  he with a slight shrapnell graze on his head: 
 "Didn't you have a tin hat on, lad?" "Oho, noh!" "How's that! hurt?" "Oho yes!" "A Blighty?" "Oho, noh!" 
 In their spoken English they can run miles from the average Tommy.. but Tommy certainly leans fondly towards local dialects. 
 Our world is a cupula iron dugout &ndash; about ten feet long: around us are old walls of a terrace, and a skeleton roof bravely rises over us. .. The light by candles and two old kerosene lamps:  most of the chaps through have been our own Artillery boys, and the Infantry of the 3rd Brigade. 
 This is my first experience of working with sick parades&hellip; it reccommends me towards a detail job in one of the Battalions. 