  
 [Letter written on paper with Salvation Army  letterhead] Seymour, Vic 28th August 1916 
 My dear John 
 Thanks for your letter which blew in safely by Saturday's post. From what we have heard here of the Armentieres & Pozieres scrums, & especially of the part played therein by the 1st Bgde, I am inclined to think that poor old C. may be classed among  the more (or less) lucky ones. It has been said here that few of the boys there failed to stop something. Those who only get it well enough to give them a few weeks hospital are often called lucky. 
 We don't know when we're going, but we know we're on our way! Have been informed that we may leave on the 16th, 25th or 30th of next month, and as, on Thursday last, we had gun drill, for the first time since leaving Addison Rd., possibly we may leave about the 30th.  For the past two days the weather has been working up to a crisis. Saturday night wind began at 9pm & by 9.30 a goodly host of tents were somewhat mixed up. the mob 
 Three pages of the letter have been saved in incorrect order, and the following has been saved as page 21] was enjoying a free concert, arranged by sundry Melbourne [snifers?], and wind had given place to torrential rain by the time the show ended. Then Oh! the melodious voices in the night! I don't know whether the curses of the thousands had anything to do with it - but the fact remains that thunder & lightning came into the scheme & the scene was all lit up blue & green for half an hour.  The luckless ones slept all over the shop in the "institutes" and the lucky devils did the laughing. 'The Knuts' were lucky, having  only leakages to worry about. 
 No doubt this place was designed by the devil, but we get a devil of a lot of fun out of things. We can even get amusement out of such a trivial, common occurrence a stew made of rotten meat. The  boys have some fine exibits saved up & they're not likely to forget the state that supplied them. We spend most of our cash at the Camp Restaurant & the  proprietors must be coining fortunes as the lowewst tariff is 9d for one egg & chips.  If they had decent cooks things would be alright, but they have no cooks at all. The cooking is done by men out of the lines - who are in some way unfitted for drill & pick & shovel. 