  
 Sea Nov/16 
 My Dear Mother & Father 
 Briefly - Durban will do. It sounds bad to compare foreign ports with those of one's own country, but its a solid fact that Durban has treated us to a far more comprehensive hospitality than our own cities ever were guilty of attempting. From the cheery Hindu family, who had our wharf to themselves as we drew in, up to the Natal Commissioner's family & down again to the last ricksha boy to rob us ere we re-embarked. The population of this city let itself go to give us a picnic.  They seem to realise the war most keenly - maybe it is brought home, for the port is a cross-road for transports to & from the ends of the earth. The streets swarm with uniforms of every pattern & the faces under helmet, hat, cap & turban are of all hues from pink & black to yellow. Also it is a resting place for the crowded hospital ships, many of which find the beginning & the end of their voyage here... The enemy they meet in German East is greater than the German. Then there is the memory of past struggle always on top in the minds of the people of Natal. Anyhow we are, none of us, likely to forget our stay here. Whilst lying at the wharf, Sunday evening & Monday morning, the ship was under an incessant bombardment. 
 Capetown very different to Durban. The only notice taken of us here is to close the pubs. 
 We left Capetown about 3.30 pm. In front of us went a big ship loaded with black troops whom we may meet again. They looked well in their blue uniforms, we gave them a send off - the whites of Capetown apparently disdain to notice these black beauties who are going out to fight for them. They nearly went mad when the Australians cheered them, & all got on to 'God Save the King' in their own language. I signalled 'Good Luck, Comrades' as they went by  & got an answer "Thank you Australian  Much luck.'  These chaps [ought?]  to make good fighters especially in cold steel work. Must close now & Ho! for the merry merry Gold Coast, and the glories of the Senegal. 
 Much love from Harry 