  
 a front of many miles & the fish were retreating in close order with some panic, same direction as ourselves. Later we saw piggy's strategy at its best, for only a few miles further down we ran into another brigade of his pals going like blue blazes to cut off the retreating victims (?) A journalistic exageration permitted by circumstances. These fish must have been eating European newspapers flung out from ships - otherwise how do they get these tactical ideas? They certainly seem to work on some well organised plan, but how they keep a shoal on the surface in 4,000,000 feet of water beats all conjecture. A squadron of trained porp.s ought to be very useful in a minefield. We have also seen a few 'dolphins' - a very small caricature of the sea pig - playing about, but otherwise the sea about us is desolate enough. Now & then a whale comes up on the horizon, sports, has a look around, sees our ark and promptly bolts for the S.P.  They say the whales have been so often mistaken for subs that time & experience have taught them to shun the society of grey ships that sneak along the ocean's by-ways. Very probably the whale has also been eating news-papers.  Who knows? - not the censor  As for ships - except in port at F. we have not sighted one since leaving Melbourne! We know there are plenty of keels hurrying E. & W., but they don't come our way, although the wireless talks continuously like a state premier. You can show the message about the Ch Brothers to John - If you see [indecipherable] W tell her [indecipherable] keeping a look out for  'Bill's brothers & will visit them shortly  (if I get a chance) - I don't know about Aunt Jane yet, but don't expect to have any luck in that direction for a long while. 
 [the pages of the letter have been saved in incorrect order and the following is saved as page 39] By the way Wilson's double is on this boat - he was running a Diddlembuck School & his cry of "Any more for  Enny  more - ! It's the little gime o' diddlembuck! I 'ides 'em an' you finds 'em!" first drew my attention. 
 Nov 2. Early this morning we passed a small school of whales, fairly close; They were variously identified by the spectators as whales, porpoises, dolphins, threshers, sharks & seals. Reasons given for a few of them) whales never jump high in the water, Porpoises only are responsible for such capers & are, also, the only "fish that  spouts." Its very funny to be in a hammock for an hour listening to the various arguments that crop up. If W.W. Jacobs were on this ship he'd get plenty material. We are finding things a bit monotonous now & I expect that, by the time we are half through the monotony will be the main part of the show. There is ab-so-lutely  nothing to do but eat - & when one's story that has to be confined to meal times. The reading matter has given out and we have no prospect of renewing the supply for weeks to come. I thought of trying to start a ship "paper" but could not raise sufficient enthusiasm  to go ahead. The Y M C A officer [indecipherable] lives on the quarterdeck & we hardly know him except by his badges - therefore, as the only typewriter on board is in his quarters the 'paper' stunt is not likely to come off. A few days of roaring [indecipherable] storm weather would improve things. The indications at present are favorable in this respect. 
 [the pages of the letter have been saved in incorrect order and the following is saved as page 40] The sea is a sickly grey color & a thin haze has settled about us; The sea birds have left us for several hours & an oily groundswell is rising steadily as we go further west. By the way, during the last few hours we have seen several dead birds floating - a circ. which is said to indicate that some rough weather has passed their way. 
 Nov 5th The rough weather has not, so far, come our way &,  apart from a few showers & slightly colder winds, conditions continue ideal. A ship newspaper is to be started shortly - officially - and I'll try & get you a copy as a souvenir,  if the rag proves worth while. Sports are still the rage & we're having a fine time. 
 I'm glad I brought a good supply of the weed as under other circ's I should have been stuck for it. We only draw 1/- per day while on board & that at stated intervals. 