  
 [Letter written on paper with Church of England Soldiers' Institute  letterhead] 19 August 1916 My dear Mother Your letter, with cash, also letter card & tobacco all blew in in a bunch yesterday. Thanks muchly, also, thank Father for getting the weed.I'd about got sick of cheap & nasty mixtures, as sold here. The cash will come in handy as I'm trying for leave next weekend to go to Melbourne & camp expenses are as high as some of the camp mutton - Excuse the goat. The socks from Madeline S. arrived yesterday. When writing there please convey my thanks etc. 
 Raining here as usual,- harder than usual if there is a difference. We have been digging trenches (the "dinkum" article - as used in France) for the last few days. It is very interesting & exciting work, but would be very tame in dry weather. You go out several miles, carrying a pick. Some other mug carries a shovel. This is the case with many successive pairs of mugs. After a while you come to a river in flood & the High Pan-Jek informs you that this is the first trench of the system under construction. It is a firing trench with "island traverses" he says. You 
 [the pages of the letter have been saved in incorrect order and the following is saved as page 15] find it very easy to believe this because the islands are just so - portions of land surrounded by water. You cross the trench by means of sundry bridges & proceed along the banks of communication (trenches) rivers to the next one, same old thing.  So you progress until arrival at the site selected for your particular trench. You dig like mad for several minutes. Then your shoveller scoops like mad for half an hour to get the liquid mud & water out of the hole. Next a critical expert comes along & maps out a drain. You dig, not so madly, at the drain & soon have a nice little yellow creek in full action. Being persuaded you then return to the trench proper & renew your efforts. Unless you get sense early, you keep on this way until both you & your shoveller are suddenly overwhelmed by the overflow from the next man's section & get gloriously drowned. The next man is usually the one who wont dig his [drain?] & collects a lot of water in order that he may suddenly release it down the trench on better "bloques" than he can ever hope to be. 
 'To get sense early' means that you realise what you're in for the first half hour & evaporate yourself into the dark & silent bush, to drown your sorrows in smoke & contemplate tortures for the Kaiser. 