
[The following letter is of 12 pages and is transcribed here as one page with breaks between each page. The pages were copied in the incorrect sequence.]Perham DownsDec 30 - 16Dear Mother & FatherNow that we are in a civilized  country and have a little leisure (and some notepaper) I'm going to try & give you a little account of our trip since leaving Cape Town - Nothing occurred until evening  25th Nov. I'll give you it as my notebook ('Dairy' as one of our boys named it) shows it.25th  6.37 pm. The old Lincoln gave a bump, kicked like a dying rabbit, & then stopped. Followed an avalanche of officers into the engine room. It was very funny. Lots of the poor lads from way back thought it was what is known on transports as 'the death knock.' They jumped all over the shop, but the majority instantly blamed some Cape mutton we had flung over a few hours before. It sure was strong enough to kill anything. Inquiry found that all that was wrong was the screw & shaft - she had passed over some wreckage, caught it, screwed off a blade and split the tail shaft. The ship's officers used language unfit for the ears of soldiers - I'm sorry I cant include it here, but the censor might be shocked!  We were found capable of 6 knots speed, & on the following day the crew were down working over the shaft for some time, the work resulting in a small increase of speed. On 26th, in evening, we started steaming due west & were still going west on 27th . Had been told that Dakar, in French Senegal was our destination, but the change of course got us thinking. Then on the evening of the 27th the lights were doused suddenly, all hands paraded in the messes & each man had to get into a lifebelt. These were then checked for necessary repairs etc & a submarine guard, of picked
shots was detailed. 10 a.m. 28th . The sub.guard was double, armed with rifles, ball cartridge, & the lame duck began to waddle to the N.W. Then, respectively, the course was N, N.E., N.W., N.E., E, S.W, S & S.East. We were still speculating, but with a good idea of the trouble. Speed was knocked up to 9 knots. Chaplain's came down on the troop decks & advised us to be ready for any old thing. Boats were swung out, provisioned, and axes hung ready to cut lashings. Spare life belts put handy. Rambled all day thro thick haze & O.C. cheered us with the news that we'd not sleep if we knew as much as himself. At 8.15 we were steaming due E. but suddenly strange light flashed dead ahead. I was up in the rigging with some of the 'guns' & saw it. White flares followed by several sharp flashes very far away. We swung round almost in our own length & scooted back like  a sick rabbit into the haze. Then stopped dead for a while, before proceeding west dead slow.  This was the case all night, a sneak & a stop from one mist to another. (At 9.30 she managed over 9 knots for a while on a zig zag course, but she was soon sneaking again. At 10.15 we were told quietly (that is , the mob with whom I eat, sleep & malinger under the protection of mac) what was wrong. One of us happened to be on sentry & overheard officers, who thought it wise to tell us on a promise of not blabbing to the ship. On the 29th at 4.a.m. we had worked round to East & began to run S East at all speed possible. At 7 am sighted smoke & soon three C.'s came up. All hands got 'cheeky' again & all was well in 'the Ark'. About 10.30 we saw mountains sticking up out of the haze & soon after found ourselves
outside the port of Freetown, Sierra Leone, with a large fleet of vessels lying along the estuary in front of the town: Then, at 11.30, after having dodged the sub for days, made a darn fool of him, and all in a crippled condition, we managed to get wrecked in bright sunlight on a sea as smooth as glass! Trying to enter without waiting in the danger zone for a pilot, our poor old Lincoln took the wrong side of the buoy & piled up alongside of another ship, wrecked seven weeks earlier in the same way! From that point I'll just give you a copy of the Dairy verbatim, to show that even shipwreck is often slandered by well meaning folks who have never seen its advantages
29th 2.30 Kedges out ready to move her at high tide. Boys are raking out stray coppers to enter in the sweep - tickets for 10 minutes of each hour up to midnight 1d each.  Winner takes pool less 10% to promotors. The wreck beside us is a steamer similar to the N.Coast boat Pulganbar. She lies nose up, hard & fast, derricks swung out just as the salvage people left her after shifting portable items of junk. Scene from here is glorious - the range rises almost from the shore & the peaks are green to their summits above the mists. The bush covering the slopes is splendid, huge mangoes in young leaf everywhere, paw-paws, palms of all sorts, & a dozen varieties of splendid 'foliage' trees. The mountain, on our left & right over the inner end of the town, is grassed all the way up on the seaward side. On top red roofed buildings are visible which we are told are the quarters of a black infantry regiment. The name of this peak is Mount Aureol. The town, or city of Freetown is built in the
form of a circle about a round hill on which are the white Barracks - fine looking, massive white buildings in which the English Garrison is quartered. The town itself is low lying as we see it, houses look semi-European, that is the roofs are iron & the walls, all of a brownish color, look queer as seen thro the glasses.  Palms show up over the roofs everywhere. On our right is a long point, running out into the ocean, on which we can plainly see large cocoa-nut plantations. At the sea ward end is a miniature lighthouse. Churches seem plentiful in the landscape.
30th Efforts to refloat were wasted. Rig failed, navy collier had a try & only succeeded in wrenching her nearly apart & letting the sea in. At low water we were clear amidships but had only 12 feet water amid ships. She stands up like a tower at ebb & we can see the mud grass on the bottom. Under orders to abandon ship.
1st Dec. Came off yesterday in nigger flat boats, full marching order but left kits aboard, landed on wharf & marched off to barracks. Column passed through town, niggers excitedly crowding round from everywhere. Soon began to go uphill. Very hot - very tired, very heavy load - poor - - - soldier! Climbed about million feet - rested. Climbed another million along well made gravel road into dense jungle. Cane-grass ten feet  high above & below, trees, scrub, vines & palms. Rested. Climbed two more million - track crosses mountain stream over which stand officers shouting "Don't drink this water!" Poor thirsty - - - - - - soldier!!!  Another million - getting dark - & not many soldiers on road, but plenty along the sides - lying
down - swearing feebly. Then a scramble & chatter of monkeys, a cheer from ahead, & we're out of the jungle. In front & above are the barracks!!! Mount Aureol Bks!  I got there without having to lie down - but I lay down as soon as I saw a clear path of grass in the 'square'! Tea of bully & biscuit & water. Quartered in fine airy hut overlooking a wild gully full of monkeys, panthers & wild cats (mustcats)  There's a black regiment on garrison here - Jamaicans - fine chaps - English speaking & mostly bearing English names & well educated - They've done everything they can to make us 'ship wrecked soldiers' at home. It's too hot to drill - & if it were not there's no flat space on which to drill, anyhow!  Today we've spent our remaining cash on oranges, cocoa nuts, paw paws, yams etc To-night I feel like a boa-constrictor in food business. Have had to forage for tucker all day as there is a difficulty in supply & our tucker is due to-morrow. Have foraged to good purpose too - for the fruit grows here in nature's orchard. Our huts are ornamented by rockeries & gardens which blaze with tropical leaves & French roses. There are plenty snakes, spiders as big as plates, scorpions, wasps, monkeys, niggers & more obscure company to keep one amused. Also, if the worst should happen, there are hundreds of bald vultures that fly down & sit contemplatively close to you if you lie down in the open. To keep off the malaria there is also Walkers Whisky which you mix with the juice of a wild lime & a grey old sergeant of the Brit. West India Regt introduced me to a decoction, home made, that might be called punch.
It is taken hot & is a kind of beer made of rum, hops or malt, brown sugar, spice, lime juice, & unknown ingredients. Very sweet & not bad - after ship coffee & condensed water.
2nd Returned to wreck to-day for baggage - & found her floating in the harbor. Wonderful men of the Navy! She's in a bad way though & finished as far as we are concerned. Sleeping aboard. Most of the MG's were grabbed to shift cargo, but, having no ambitions in that line, I found an obliging Navy man who appointed me to a sort of sinecure - sitting top of a companion way where one of the winches was running badly, & watching to see no-one got tangled up when the slack of the cable occasionally ran down the stairway instead of round the roller. The Navy being the senior service, no-one bothered asking questions when I explained that this pleasant billet was a navy appointment.
3rd Finally abandon ship & return to mountain. Knowing so much, I paid a nigger 9d to carry my load this time. Hammocks, & kit bags are in the Navy stores. Our sick are with us, so it may mean a long stay. One thing on this mountain made me think hard. I remember a picture under the heading "Curiosities" - in a magazine - a bit of ruined wall, flanked by cannon, on which a kind of fig (monkey-food tree) has rooted. The roots, running down the masonry, have formed a sort of net about it. Thus, this one corner has remained, long after all the rest of the structure has disappeared. Ruin is portion of an old watch tower, used by the slavers while the port was still head quarters
of the African slave trade.
4th There is a big rockery garden in part of the relic in which lives an 8 foot green snake - terror of the garrison. To-day we killed a member of his family.He was only 18 inches long but had fangs big as a cats long teeth. Talking of snakes - At the observation station on the next ridge, we were shown two live Koli snakes, one 6 foot & one 8 - beautiful creatures of every   color shade of green & gold & brown. Very deadly, they say. On the main ridge, a couple of miles inland, mambas swing from the trees & jump on you if you chance to walk underneath. Boas are common & travellers don't exagerate when they say these brutes grow to 40 feet. One was killed only yesterday at Gloster, village on big mountain just behind us, it measured 34 feet. The niggers say the size is not uncommon.One of our chaps was bitten taking a forbidden short cut - and is now in hospital. Several have had narrow squeaks. Last night a big snake had a game under the boards (verandah) on which our section, including self, had spread oil sheet. I got a shock, as also did others, & we finished the night inside the hut. When the Jamaicans heard of it they were very tickled & told us on no account to sleep outside - or even walk about after dark without our legs well covered & a lamp in hand. What woke me to the danger first was a yell from [Kely?] of "Dinkum - - snake, he crawled right under me - (so-so) ear!" The Lizards here are very fine. Today I counted nine varieties of the frilled type - one a beauty - golden scales with a reed tracing running over them. This evening we were warned to be in readiness to move again. Saw four of the ships move out in the evening - they are finding room on the other ships for batches of our lot & the M.G.s may go at any time.
Guard for me & mates tonight. From what I've seen it's a good job....the boys come back from town anyhow -  & a good ambush may yield some plunder in the shape of to-bacco and fruit -
5th Good guard all right. Fed all night on fruit, tinned tongue, chicken etc, fresh bread, condensed milk & bottled stout. Up at 5 a.m. Advance guard passed out , we are to go last - best position as we have some fun while rounding up stragglers. Later. Luck gone flat - headed main body, but managed to lose it in the town & had a walk round. These natives are fairly civilized & their homes are neat & clean - but civilization has made them rotten with diseases & the coolie element is hungry enough to eat you if they could catch you asleep. Population close on 80,000 out of which about 40 are white - mainly French & Portuguese traders. The Compagnie Francais d'Afrique Occidentale is the biggest trading concern here - they have the one fine business building apart from the churches. Drew our kits, hammocks etc from the stores. Also a bottle of fine old Spanish Tosara (wine) out of a broken case. I can tell you its hard work, carrying, down steps into deep lighters & up a steep gangway, such a load as: Hammock & blankets (2) oil sheet, marching gear with full pack, two kit-bags, sundry bags of oranges & paw paws - & all with a big bottle of Tsara down the leg of ones' pants!  But I managed & am now aboard the  ---------- wondering how I'm going to get room to sleep & breathe & how long its going to last. The new home is in an old refrigerating chamber below decks & its crowded some. We learn that our old "Ark" left yesterday, and (D.V.) will dock at Gib. Her pumps will do some overtime on the trip!
Getting settled in new quarters - we were very free & easy, sort of buccaneers on the old Ark & now they're out to re-civilize & tame us - its all part of the game.
7th Not leaving yet. Ration shortage - reduced slightly today. Warned against waste.
8th Easy days loafing. War-dogs out this evening, cleared f.a.
9th Today a chap left behind by another  ship was attached to our Reinfts. Seeing us broke & smokeless he handed the mess commander 21/- (1/- per man) for to-bacco. We regard him as a hero to risk it. War dogs back with another ship - Greek. We have moved - but only to another anchorage further up the Estuary. By the way this is the mouth of Rokell river - a fine stream, about 300 m. in length, that rises in Liberia. The N.Z.s have had the boats out & been rowing up the stream, but so far no sign of our doing any such violent exercise.
10th Out at 6 am to see the others come back. All ships left on 4th expected back but only two arrived - 10.30 three more arrivals, chow, oil tanker & mailboat. Activity on warships. Church parade 11 - cheerful service all about preparedness for a coffin with portholes in it. Cheerful bloke - our chaplain.Noon. Two more ships - auxiliary [indecipherable] & store ship. Nothing on board to do but play Five hundred. 4pm. Big Frenchman arrived - Rumoured we are to leave to-morrow.
11th Nothing doing. Paid 9/-. Short of stores, other ships all worse off than we are. Have to ration them. Vegetables run out & water supply going down. Arrival French auxiliary.
12th Officially informed we're here because we're here because we cant get out - until they let us. Shortened rations & barred from using fresh water except for drinking. May have to turn to shifting stores & coaling from the lighters. Now 20 ships in.
13th Another big Frenchman, stained & battered & minus her foretop. Other ships in offing.
13th 1.30 p.m. Fleet of ships arriving. One more of the boats that left on 4th has got back, a castle liner, a mail boat, & a Britisher. The latter is a devil of a ship & good to see. Afternoon & evening brought a Shire liner, two cargos, the marathon, three colliers & others bringing total in to 31 ships. Very crowded. A navy supply went out at tea time & took a big ovation as she went. All wonder at her intentions, but the ways of the navy seem always strange. We get a lot of fun out of the wild rumours that come up "out of the mud" & are generally having a good time, but the sick parade is heavy. One of crew died night before last. Over 20000  here & its not the healthiest place on earth. Up on Mount Aureol  we were happy as larry, but the difficulties of supply did not permit us remaining.
14th The French have gone out & we are told a few of us - those shortest of supplies - must attempt to run soon.3.30. Off at last - five of us & the auxiliary. We go with an invisible escort until well to north. Steaming west, calm weather, very warm.
15th Still west - passed this morning hundreds of brilliant colored nautilus sailing on sea like a mirror. Steamed WNW after dusk. Terrible shortage of tobacco aboard & no matches at all to be had. Orders no one to shave owing to waste of water in process.
16th NW. 'Living' in our life belts.
17th NW Clouding over. On sub-guard to-night.
18th Still on guard. Have had the pleasure of reporting an N.Z. boat twice for showing lights to sea.
19th Still zig zagging N.W.
20th Steaming all points from N to E. Are told we are well over 1000m west of trade
route. Cant get to Blighty before 27th or 28th.
21st Still on the northern zig zag - had an opportunity of seeing how Red X goods are misused. A pal paid 1/6 for box of chocolates & found inside a note from the 'giver'. He is writing to the party . This is not all & I'm not saying any more except this: Send nothing through the Red X. If it cant be sent direct its better not sent - for what's the good of enriching mongrels who never see the front? Why - even old white shirts etc & dressing gowns & slippers intended for hospitals are in general use for 'fatigue' & knocking about on the transports.
22nd Med Exam final. Xmas orders - no lights, singing or noise. Rougher weather & cold rain.
23rd Rain & squalls.
24th West again last night but now NE. Indications of fog. N.Z ships hove together taking tucker from auxiliary.
25th 'Cocoa' & slice of bacon each for breakfast, Duff, pork  tinned cabbage & a spud each for dinner. Also the ship presented each of the shipwrecked soldiers with a packet of three-castles. OC troops made a speech in which he mentioned that we closer to the sea-bed than to Britain but if luck continued should soon be ashore. Fog to fog all day, occasional bursts of watery sunlight. 'Blues' handed over & given to the crew. Khaki from now on. Today I noticed CGP printed on a life belt belonging to another chap. On examination found the initials 'C.G.P.' inside & underneath someone else had printed C.G.Pryce. There were other names on it also. These belts go from ship to ship but it was curious that I should get hold of that one - eh?   Afternoon travelling dead slow & at night stopped - burial service.
26th Slow all day on a devious course NW & W. Just before dark TPO's came racing up from direction of France & lined up on either side of our squadron, steaming with us until night - when they dropped astern.
27th Between 2 & 3 a.m. heard whistles go & ships raced ahead for a while. This morning TPO's returned. Later we heard of the affair & can only say God speed to the poor chaps that went out defending us. You will have had all the news re the two TPOs collision before you get this - the other and more pleasing details I cant tell you, but can only say the merchantman that was mistaken for us & the other craft & crews were paid for very dearly by the Hun.
28th After slow passage thro mine area made Plymouth to-day - entered 9.30. Debarking all day with baggage.29th Entrained at 8.30 last night & spent all night getting into camp & finding billets. Now 'settled' in the mud for the final spell before last period of training.
30th Still getting settled. Have written a note to the Hortons re Charlie. He is not in the depot here. No letters so far for us - a few of the boys had letters waiting but the majority had nothing.
31st Settled down - no work - plenty fine tucker. Still no letters. Going to have a look round this afternoon & post this & others. No cash but there's  5 back pay due to me & hope to draw something soon. So far no word about leave or where we are to start training. Love to all, keeping plenty at home - from Harry.
Few little souvenirs of trip am sending soon as I can - nothing much as could not buy but unique in a way. H.