  
 379 Sig H.W.P. 23rd AUST Machine Gun Company. 
  All Other Addresses Cancelled  
 Parkhouse 30th August 1917 
 Dearest Mother. 
 You see I am still able to write from the island - also to use ink & YMCA paper. However, although I am not allowed to say when we make the change, I can tell you that it's not a long way off. Tremendous winds and drenching rain storms are now the fashion in this land of moist misery. Also I must put on record that the English "fruit" season is in full sway .... after a nodding acquaintance with the "fruit" called here "choice", I pass on to brighter scenes and subjects merely remarking that, over yonder, in the long lost land of drought and heat, the fruit they label  "specked" excels in appearance and quality the stuff called here "choice". Of course there are exceptional cases - for instance: very fine Aust & American apples can be had for 8d to 1/- per lb (about 4d to 8d each!) and rather cold & squashy spanish oranges cost about 1d each. The local stuff is very much 'na poo', on account of not having sufficient sun to develop, sweeten etc. Sour species are to be had in abundance - even the berries having this peculiarity. 
 For the past several days our crowd have been celebrating what we choose to call "our declaration of war". A regimental comforts fund has been started, each of us who can afford to do so paying in a little each 'pay' 
  So far we have got together a strange enough collection of "usefuls" to take over with us - it includes a typewriter, a pair of gramophones, side drum & bugle. By the way, one of the talk-boxes is already a casualty; it tried to keep the floor at a time when several elevated gunmen felt the urgent need of an un-interrupted hearing. But in the midst of general celebrations this is but an item. 
 Yesterday we got things going pretty early with the result that the afternoon pde    ground   looked like a muster ground for the survivors of forlorn hopes. Later in the evening we had a little sociable exchange with our next door neighbours, the -the Coy. It came about because of the 
  wanton disregard for the decent thing displayed  by that Coy. in the laying out of   their   funds. They bought, besides a kettle drum, a set of bag-pipes. They play, or rather aspiring amateurs attempt to play these pipes at all hours between reveille 6 am & lights out 10.15 pm. They play in their huts - never in one hut for more than half an hour. If the sun comes out the pipes follow & wail horribly in the larch plantation skirting our quarters. In the foregoing you may read all the elements necessary for the starting of a large brawl. 
 About 7.30 pm yesterday these people, who mostly hail from Vic., bought (having just received pay) a goodly quantity of beer in fire-buckets. Also about that hour a clique of them broke the inter-company 2 up school. Also   again    the day before that they won a prize awarded for the 'best packed' limber - we say they won it more by guile than merit.  All these things being as stated, our prize Badman - 'Jumbo Griff' came into Hqrs. hut with an idea. Hqs hut sympathised. Other huts, scenting beer, also complied. In the darkness that followed the sudden crash & collapse of the -th s electrics we withdrew to our own position taking with us material - beer & bagpipes. 
 They have the pipes going as normal to-day also the fire-buckets, But the beer - Threats of reprisal fill the air. We go about in parties ready for emergencies. But we have the laugh - they are one of those petted units with a comforts fund of its own in Aussi, another on the spot, and an apparently un-interrupted mail & cable service. We are just an ordinary mob, of insufficient importance or pull to interest the Aussi. Comitters & too dead beat to do much for ourselves without the help of a few of our gun-officers. Also our mails are always open subject for speculative purposes. 
  Thus, having nothing but what the paternal W Dept. issues to us, we have nothing worth a dogs while to plunder.... And ours the freedom of movement & manoeuvre while brother over the road hugs his kit with un-resting vigilance - Got a letter tonight - from C. He's still out of it but has just had a change of quarters from S. to N. & is expecting work shortly. Poor old chap - he's done his share, I reckon, if anyone has. It's up to the people who are ru(i)n(n)ing Aussi to take a tumble & get some of the old hands sent out of it - for 6 months at least. It's safe to say that no country in the war gets as much work per man from its army as Aussi does - and no country sacrifices its men with more gusto - our colors now are 'glad eye' - you can find out at BRs what that is in military parlance. 
 Mrs H. has a few warm sox, shirts, muffler & gloves issued last winter at Perham, 
  I kept them out of my kit when packing up & handing over the bag - as I would not have been likely to see them again if left in. I am hoping they will get the warm things early this winter a it wont be very bon if we have to wait for them down a damp hole somewhere. But reckon it'll be al OK - very few of us feel the W.A.F. 
  shiver now & will be in better trim for coming cold than we were for the last. So you must not worry about this one, little mother - we've cats' luck so far & the cats still live in our mess hut. Love to all from Harry. Hope you got the cards - no mail (Aussi)    H 