
Somewhere23rd Sept
My Dear J
Yesterday blew in, from lord knows where, a large assortment, 11 bags, of mail for this crowd. It included about half a doz for myself, one from yourself being of comparatively recent date and giving much news of Sydney & Maroubra affairs.
Glad to know you are still, if not advancing, at least holding the ground in Castlereagh St. On the principle that most things come to those who    [indecipherable  have most patience. I think that you must be pretty close to better conditions by now. Good luck - you will have fully earned all you get.
As you will most likely have heard before you receive this it is scarcely necessary to tell you that I have not seen the Hortons now for over three weeks. My present home at ---- in the ---- is OK. - we roost in an old "grenier" or garret[The following is written sideways along the margin of the page:]Two more letters from home & one from [indecipherable] - tell them Ive written & will again very soon. H.
of a house of the old style - I believe it was once the Hotel de Ville or some equivalent, and has seen far better days - even tho its present occupants are by no means 'nobodies'. The front looks down on a small 'place' & its built sheer, entry being by an archway which has been provided with a massive door to keep it up-to-date. This leads to a pleasant court-yard high-walled & fairly large. Pears & vines are trained on the walls. Large old pear trees stand between & the garden beds, erstwhile devoted to beauty, show the effects of war in their 'luxuriant vegetables.' All the same, the old place looks dignified inspite of the chou-fleurs. The people are very nice - three in family, father, daughter & a boy about 11 yrs.
They have just lately been repatriated after many months in Hunland, where the girl, who is about B.'s size & perhaps a couple of years older, has been doing such useful work as street sweeping (winter) and farm work at other seasons. They have told me some of their experiences. If God has any use for the Boche, He'd better get a move on ... for more than ever now one sees the necessity for eliminating these human monsters.
Met a chap named Soloman (BNSW) tother day my old unit and he knows Bill McCall well. Remember him to W McC. when you next meet him, will you. Have not heard from C. lately but think he's all right.
This town is very old. In
fact, in peace time, I can imagine it is a most delightful place but in war - how can any town resemble anything but a calvary? Such of the civvies as I have met are decent folk, not quite French, but still decent. In fact I gather that the boys can mostly blame themselves where they meet with incivility. Anyhow I have been treated tres bon, also the other three sigs. for whom I do the palavering. Am getting 'la langue' OK and can now comprend mostly anything & talk fairly also. It comes back.
Writing in a hurry as must get on with the job vitement.Love to one & all from yr brother Harry WP.
