
19/10/17
My Dear J
I write now from Harefield - No1 Aust. Auxiliary Hospl. - don't expect me to describe it (pour c'est vraiment impossible pour le faire); Since arrival, last Tuesday night, I have not seen beyond the ward except through the window. Of my stay at Napsbury I have no complaints to make. The sisters were very decent, the tucker was good and only limited by the patient's appetite. The Dr was satisfied that being an 'Aussi' was a quite incurable sickness & one over which he need waste no time - Therefore I lay in bed when
[the following is written sideways along the margin of the page:]Mr Horton writes that he cabled for me - Hope all clear re the 5 - please fix with Mother to make it up out of allotment money which I'm going to try & increase later on. May try for a stripe or two to keep me in 'peace' till after winter, as the cold is my deadly enemy every time.
Love to all & Good Luck from yr bro Harry.
I liked, got out when I liked & ate when & what I liked, while all the time nature, assisted by blood of which I suspect that it is too good to be true, healed up the scratches & abrasions & gradually toned down all but the various short-circuits in my communications.
By the way just take notice of this fact because I'm going to swank on it for eighty years or so of the future. The soil of Belgium is rotten at its best - after three years of churning in Hell's own factory it is become a substance too horribly vile to describe. Each 'wounded' case that goes back, even the smallest 'graze' is first dealt with by an injection of an anti-toxin. This is repeated several times between
[The following is written sideways along the margin of the page:]Best wishes for Xmas & New Year from Harry.
'ambulance' & 'Blighty'. Probably owing to pressure I got passed through the CCs straight to the N.Z. Stationary Hosp with my boots still on. N.Z. dragged my boots & other rags off, very likely thought I'd had the "anti-t", rolled in a blanket, pinned a red rag  on me & pushed me off to Calais where I finally sat up & 'took-this' in the ball-room of the Casino. Asked there if wounded I satisfied myself that my toes could still turn up & then said  "no!" I believed it until  the lines began to get communication. Then assisted variously, discovered about fifteen large & small chips that had bled, hardened & healed in the two & half days snooze!  It was then too late for Anti, but strangely enough they all healed clean without a hitch.
Now I have to stay in bed & be tortured daily by an amiable 'brown man' whose native pagan arts have taught him how to make the lame walk. He reckons about  three or four weeks ought to do me as its only one leg & I'm able to work it about a little already. Shall not be sorry when the job is finished & can get away on furlough - seems funny to write, but I owe it to plain truth to whisper that even in their hospitals the 'Aussiheads' are 'mad militarists' & dull - painfully dull and reminiscent of the sheep & cow. In this case we are the sick stock. Such is not the way in Tommydom - T. is a domestic biped only in khaki - in blue he is recognised as a human being again. You would laugh if you could sit here for a day & look & listen. You would also get the strength of my remarks above.