
Somewhere17.9.17
My Dear Mother & Father
Came up here, or rather came round to here, a few days ago. Leaving  -  early in the afternoon. I had a good opportunity of seeing a bit of the country &, as my luck secured me a passage in the guard-van while my French gave me the freedom of the guard's observation box astern, I can tell you I enjoyed the trip thoroughly. The first section of the rail led upward thro hilly country of great natural beauty and apparent richness. On all sides lay spread old (cider) apple orchards - each with its trim break-wind of green wood. These orchards are not cultivated, beyond the clearance of all undergrowth, and are more like tree covered lawns than anything else. Each hillside is tilled; years of cultivation have trimmed the slopes into neat terraces that appear wonderfully fertile. Clear running
streams abound, a sun that recalls an Aussi fine day gleams on long white roads of marvellous straightness, water-meadows in the 'ponds' and woods which boast a brighter & more varied foliage than those of Blighty - even tho the trees are identical of species.
Each time the long train halts, and halts are frequent on the side tracks, we get out of the van for a handful of blackberries or apples. The berries are the finest I have seen since last in 'Bulli' pass. After some hours we pass thro a station & pull up beyond on a high embankment that looks over a small but quite charming town. Youngsters come scrambling up the sides, flinging apples and demanding "penni". I asked where we were & was told 'Yvetot' - have you ever read a book called 'le Roi d'Yvetot'? Well, that's the same place & the book told the
truth! It matters nothing that I mention the name of that place for it's not on all the maps & even if it were a lot of water has gone under the bridge since we passed.
Once to the top of the hills we passed thro a wide tableland, where crops were being brought in, at some places with the assistance of Aussis and N.Z's. Every man of the country, farm laborer or not unless he be old, wears his uniform..... I saw a fettler, working on the line, who wore the much worn 'rags' of a chasseur - a railway guard knows what the clouds look like from above when the sun is on them.
Up on this tableland the roads are avenues of poplars, the woods are dressed & trimmed like regiments of giant soldiers on parade. In a gap between tall trees there
appears a tall white gate of rich design on which gleams some old armorial device. The car draws level & you are looking down a long vista of trimmed shrubs, fountains & gardens to a white chateau among the trees. One glimpse & you see no more - but the old chateau has stood there by the road & watched armies pass, and watched them return - for how many hundreds of years?
Night falls. There is nothing now to see. We stop for tea at a siding and, afterwards, the old guard & I sit up in the box exchanging conversation & cigarettes and drinking each others health in anisette which he has brought aboard for the night  journey. At   one    twelve I go to sleep in the van with my boots on. At one Huebert (the guard) passes with his lantern & I hear his
'bonne nuit et bonne chance!' Then he has stepped out into the dark & the relief, a young infantry ex-soldat comes in with a quiet 'bon soir camarades.' C'est l'entente cordiale.
I like the [poilu?] He is so quiet and self-contained, and he never talks about his prowess. If he has an Anzac he leaves it to the historian. If you mention Verdun to him he looks surprised & murmurs "Oh les aura!" (They asked for it!)
In the morning , as the mists cleared we saw that we had passed to a dank land of canals and squalid villages. Soon the finish. Then, for me, a 20 kilometre bike ride & I am here.
I live in an attic, large & roomy, over an old style town residence. The front looks sheer on the street. Inside is a roomy courtyard, high-walled, with vines & pears trained on the walls
and large pear-trees in the centre. The garden is sacred to vegetables - for it is war time.On the west side of the court there is a door in the wall. Open it & you find yourself standing on the brink of a river, (the river you may have read about (or one of them!)) It is walled up in its passage thro the town & only about 8 ft wide by three or four in depth; But all the same it represents no small body of water for it is very swift. At first we would be awake in our 'mansarde' and think a heavy rain storm was in progress, but now we are used to the sound & find it rather pleasant.
Since arrival I have been paying due attention to the "language of civilisation" and find that much
comes back to me. I can now get along quite satisfactorily and hope that, in a few weeks, I shall be of dual nationality as regards speech. The only trouble is that one hears so many dialects that must be recognised & avoided.
Now for the present I must say good-night to you both and good luck - bonne nuit et bonne chance!
To the rest of the folks please say that I remember them, but, as no doubt they understand, I also am too busy to write other than a few letters.
With fondest love from your son Harry.