
My Dear Mother,
This is the "scrap" of paper to which I am reduced - but believe me it is quite suitable for one finds little in the way of news to write about. My outlook at present is per several windows, across a ruberoid roof at a skeleton tree against a grey sky. The tree has only become a skeleton in the past few days. Typical English scene, typical English weather --- but not a typical English ward. I believe there is still a war going on somewhere tho all one hears talk of is raid - raid always raid. Almost one is tempted to believe that they 'have the  wind up' to use modern English.  Harold Horton was on his last leave about the time I hit Blighty this trip and by now, I expect, is in France where I hope he will have Luck and gain more & more pips. Think I shall have to make my next pilgrimage over there with a couple of pips - it means so much more personal comfort etc (& the pips take several months in the getting - a good point for the war may not last - ) But there's a bad point too. The French that is the decent people in that part of Europe that we call France & France calls the "Dirty North," don't like the dashing Anglo-S sub much. The dashing  one of more stars & even crowns, they like less. If the "dash"d one happens to be one of   Us  they hate him quite cordially & refer to him casually as "bete sauvage." Thus  on second thoughts I think   indecipherable  it may be wiser to remain what is officially called 'Other Ranks.' It is so much better if you happen to need tucker & decent wine. The leg progresses. Matter of fact there's mighty little wrong with it  bar a bruised nerve & the massage is straightening that out. Of course I am obsessed with a wild longing to return to Belgium & my beloved comrades, we all are. This is the secret of the indomitable spirit of victory permeating all branches of the service.
[The following is written sideways along the margin:]Not bad sniff for fly-papers that bit! I keep hoping that all is well in Aust, particularly in NSW. But bar the letter at Fangs I have heard not a word. A group of Aussi invalids are now discoursing at foot of my bed & it is impossible to continue writing in the national  (?) atmosphere.Heaps of Love from Harry.