
some got on wrong blocks - while two pushed out & nearly blocked the road for keeps. They've knocked holes in the buildings here & there to let the pedestrians through to otherwise inaccessible streets. The walls, moss grown, stained, and unlovely, are interesting - for its about 1000 years since they were last cleaned.  Downing Street - scene, according to the sensational novelist, of many dark deeds and birthplace of brainy schemes galore, is a lane. It's like Gresham St, Sy. only not nearly as wide. The Strand is on a par with the shopping end of Pitt St, but Pitt beats it for width by several feet. The pavements are the devil and the shops have the old style windows that don't help much in making the place bright. As you go further in, by Bond St
[the following is found on page 122 - a6376122]& Fleet & Throgmorton Sts, you begin to 'want to go home.'  They are all narrow - narrow, dark and dirty. Throgmorton St, home of finance (?) is a place of filthy looking dens - such as old Wexford St, only minus the Chows. We were glad to get back to the Anzac Buffet near Horseferry Road for a feed and some black coffee wherewith to take the taste away. See London as pictured by all means - but for heavens sake leave the reality alone. You know that sickening smell of stale soapsuds, garbage etc that was a feature of the 'Loo? That's the smell of London Streets. Sydney is clean - you can breathe there - and you can see the sun. London has not seen more than a red disc in a yellow sky for - how many
[the following is found on page 120 - a6376120]years?
There was one touch of green - the Embankment & the Park. The Embankment, tree lined, young green bursting out feebly from soot crusted branches. [Indecipherable] the trees - the wreckage of London hopelessly looking out across the thick water to the mudbank on the opposite side; And in the traffic-bays of the bridge more wreckage - womenfolk of Englishmen 'gone west' or still going - a great army that adds nothing to the glory of war.
Has it ever occurred to you that the Britisher is learning a hell of a lot these days? - Some of the chaps I've met, Englishmen who've been out of Blighty for the first, & roughest trip of their narrow lives, will talk for hours of what they've learnt over in the Gay
[the following is found on page 118 - a6376118]Country. The thing that has struck them hardest seems to be that over there, now, everybody seems busy. Old men, women, cripples & kids, all seem to be at some kind of war-work, and all seem to be looked after. A W.O. of the Glosters (Dragoons) told me that, after 18 months in France, most of the time being spent well back, buying eatables etc, he had come to the conclusion that no such thing as poverty exists there, once the Line is left behind; All classes, he says, are on a level - their government permits nobody to starve, as it also permits nobody to be un-employed. He described it all as "a miracle of order, every part of the machine working at highest pressure like a well oiled Vickers." They certainly seem pretty good on "Immediate action" when some part of the machine goes wrong!