Croix-Du-Bac
2/4/16
Up at 0630 to hear the church bells ringing and mademoiselle got us for a franc a very nice breakfast of eggs and toast. Driver called for us at 0745 and calling in to say au revoir to our English Scotch friends, we made for the Divisional headquarters and met some of the staff officers there. Left for home again in motorbus at 1000 ? a lovely Sunday morning and we had a delightful trip through sunny lanes and green fields.
Visited quite a number of small towns on the return journey taking a slightly different course to that we took in going in the first place. Passed again through the Forest of Sebenque which is very thick but foresters had been at work thinning out the wood and cutting the wood into lengths. A strait paved road runs through the forest and stretches across the country straight as a dart for miles ? a splendid thoroughfare.
We had lunch at a wayside tavern where everything was beautifully clean and the lady of the house spotless. She gave us for 70 centimes cups of tea and biscuits and cakes. Two charming mademoiselles aged about 15 and 16 respectively dressed very smartly in nice dresses were the serving wenches. 
The dung heap in the centre of the farmyard is used unconventionally by both sexes for latrines and just outside the kitchen window at this little tavern was a trough which we used in full view of all; all passing repassing as a matter of course. 
Reached Roquefort at about 1500 and wrote a report. Barzely returned there so walked down to his billet with him. Found all quiet down here. Yesterday they had a practice attack with actual gas here using their helmets. Passed some minutes in dalliance with the coy mademoiselle Marcello? Aged dix huit. Rum on issue again to all ranks and is much looked forward to by the soldiers.
Talking to a girl in a debitant about 5 miles away. She was a school teacher prior to all such positions being given to refugees and could speak English splendidly having taken it for matrice subject. She said the people here spoke with clipping accent, not fully sounding words and using Flemish slang as well, and that on the contrary, in the South the people speak far better emphasising every single syllable throughout. She said she only learned English because she had to never thinking how handy it would be. Mainezzed speaks rather well and improving daily.
Couchez 2150.