 [Page 104] 
 Young Arthur came over to see me 
 June 15 Tuesday 1915 Allen &amp; Hill badly wounded with shapnel this morning. Air O plane flying over Turkish trenches Trooper badly wounded Shells flying about everywhere. A monitor was hurling shells on land all the morning. Carne wounded machine gun section. Trooper 4th L. H. Victoria was lying in dug out when large fell hitting him, leg severed &amp; arm. Major Fuller picked up piece of bone about 1&frac12; long, flesh scattered in all directions. After being hit he simply asked for a cigarette &amp; said he was done. He was alive some time later, Died later in day. 
 June 16 Wednesday 1915 Yesterday a trooper whilst tampering with an unexploded shell had his legs &amp; penus severely injured owing to it exploding. He had it between his knees trying to unscrew the top. Major Fuller &amp; Lieu Robson around trenches 2 troopers of 3rd Reinforcements broke camp at Maadi &amp; came over. To be returned under escort. Good news received from Cape Ellis of the Troops successfully attacking Achay Barba, a large &amp; prominent hill. Orders came out that there was likely to be an attack by the Turks to night, all officers &amp; men to be ready. Shelling was incessant this evening a number of our men being killed &amp; wounded. Major Charley leaving tonight for Alexander in connection with his patent periscope 
 June 17 Thursday 1915 Very little shelling this morning.  Major Fuller &amp; Lieu Robson down with bomb throwers practising. Brigadier received word today that we would be made up into a Brigade within a day or so. Colonel Harris &amp; Dodds visited us today also 2,1st Brigade Officers. Shelling heavy toward evening. Two troopers Liniytz &amp; Christison were brought before the Trirsunal Headquarters this evening for examination. Both were discharged, not sufficient evidence against them. 
 June 18th Friday 1915 Major Fuller &amp; Lieu Robson inspecting new site for our camp. Capt Somerville with party bomb throwing. Mail day outwards. Posted letter home, Guns very quiet this morning, only few shells exchanged either side. Trooper Billinger (or Harrison) was killed whilst observing today. Father &amp; brother here also. Orders to proceed to new camping ground tomorrow. In the Peninsula Press today, Winston Churchill uttered these words to his constituents at Dundee June 5th 1915 "Through the narrows of the Dardinelles, &amp; across the ridges of Gallipoli Peninsula, lie some of the shortest paths to a Triumphant Peace". 
