 [Page 2] 
 [Operation Order written by Major Richard Francis Fitz Gerald, for the evacuation of  Australian troops from Gallipoli] No.7    Secret 20th Btn Hd Qrs 5th Bde AIF Walkers Ridge 17-12-15 
 Operation Order No. 1 By Major R. F. Fitz Gerald Commanding 20th Btn. 5th Bde A.I.F. 
 Information (1)  Orders have been received for the re-embarkation of the Brigade &amp; its transfer to Mudros. 
 Intention (2)  The re-embarkation will be carried out at a time &amp; date to be notified later &amp; during the hours of darkness on 2 nights.  Watches will be checked with signal time on both evenings. 
 Preparatory Measures (3)  Immediate steps will be taken for the removal &amp; destruction of all official papers &amp; surplus stores &amp; will be carried out at usual incinerators.  No abnormal amount of smoke or flame must be displayed.  Usual fires to be lit daily.  Emptying of earth at dumps &amp; replacing of damaged parapet sand bags  to be continued .  Normal number of periscopes to be displayed, especially on the last day.  Normal firing to be continued from usual points in trenches. The Naval Light must be left burning on the last night.  Lamps to be filled &amp; carefully tended on last night. 
 Arrangements for Embarkation (4) All parties except C, will move in formed bodies.  C parties will move direct from the trenches to the pier.  Special provision to be made against straggling.  March tables are attached. All movements will be made expeditiously &amp; in absolute silence &amp; the utmost care will be taken to maintain the appearance of a normal night.  No lights &amp; no smoking   will be permitted &amp; all orders will be given in an undertone.  The word "Retire" must  not  be used.  Troops will embark with 150 rounds per man.  2 iron rations &amp; water bottles filled.  On the final night Blankets &amp;amp W.P. sheets will  not  be carried, but Greatcoat &amp; Packs will be retained.  All Officers will rigidly inspect packs to ensure that no unnecessary gear is carried. 