(24) Floating along as slow as ever. Affairs on board going in the same old go-as-you-please fashion. At the Orderly room this morning Sgt L-- charged with striking Sgt B(both Queenslanders) case remanded. A great number of the troops suffering with a rash caused through the heat. Same old ding-dong arguments going on over the tucker. Weather still very warm.
(25) Had some heavy showers through the night. Very uncomfortable for the boys who slept on deck. Rifle exercises this morning the first time since leaving Sydney, Hammock Blanket inspection this afternoon. Lecture on by Lieut Hinde for Officers N.C.O's. Nice cool breeze blowing all day.
(26) Wind freshened up through the night vessel getting tossed about a wee bit. Sighted a number of small Islands on starboard side. Some of the East Indies no doubt. The flying fish are plentiful about here, saw some very large ones to-day. Many troops suffering from bad attacks of cold, the atmosphere appears to be quite damp in these parts. Lecture tonight on sanitation by the M.O. Captain Single A.M.C.
(27) Fine day. Boat drill carried out at last also lifebelts issued to each man. We have 2 lifeboats 4 rafts allocated to our company of 150 men guess there will be some squeezing. Held mock Court Marshall in Sgts Mess this afternoon over Cpl Pierce for stealing Sgt Noads pyjamas. Sgt Hogan acted in the capacity of Judge, proceedings very amusing. A lecture tonight on the care of rifles by Lieut Vine-Hall very interesting largely attended.
(28) Widdies Birthday. Showery weather land in sight supposed to be Sumatra, passed a very high mountain peak named Mt Fuji. Looked very nice from the sea. I am Coy Orderly Sgt to day. Usual Church parade held. Things in general running much better now. Sea calm.
March 1stStill in sight of Sumatra. Atmosphere much cooler. Rifle exercises this morning on Foc-sale deck. Same performance this afternoon. Lecture on Physical Culture tonight by Lieut Judge very interesting.
(2) Our Coy on duty to day. Things in Cooks Galley other departments ever so much better, thanks to an energetic Lieut. Still having fine weather another lecture tonight on outpost duty by Lieut Lawrence.
(3) Beautiful day. Morning spent at Rifle drill Physical drill. Sgt Duncan Odly Sgt Lecture tonight on administration by Lieut Wall. A little excitement caused aboard caused by "Seang Choon sending up rockets for assistance about 9.P.M.
(4) Sea as calm as a mill pond. Rifle drill signalling Parades to day. Lieut Hinde making preparations for our Equatorial celebrations which promise to be O.K. All those forming part of Neptune's court hard at it making up their various guises. Lectures night on Rifle aiming by Lieut Harland very tame.
(5) Sea as per usual dead calm. But the weather is very warm. Holiday given to all the boys in honor of the occasion crossing the Line. About 10 A.M. King Neptune's court headed by "Nep" hailed Capt of the ship from Forecastle deck then headed by the boys of the "Squeeze Band" and surrounded by his Sattellites marched round the decks much to the astonishment of those who had not previously witnessed such a weird sight. After Neptune having welcomed the ship those aboard a successful voyage etc. etc The ducking shaving etc was indulged in much to the merriment of the onlookers. The Officers taking the lead N.C.O's men following Lieut Hinde Court usher, myself King Neptune, McKenzie was the Doctor Abbot was the Barber etc the function went off splendidly. The afternoon was spent haveing water sports, a large canvas bath haveing been erected for the purpose.