Feb 11th 1915Our boys of the 2nd reinforcements of the 1st, 2nd, 3rd 4th 13th Battn marched out of Liverpool entrained for Sydney arriving 10.30A.M. and headed by a good band marched through the City to the wharf. Crowds lined the route our boys were cheered all the way. We embarked on the H.M.T. Seang Bee steamed away from Wooloomoloo at noon for Brisbane to pick up Queensland troops, weather very rough along the coast. Majority of the troops down with seasickness. anyhow generally.
(12) Sea a trifle lumpy. Boys beginning to get on the tooth again The C.O Major Roberts makes a start to get some kind of routine order going aboard. Things on the Cooks galley badly in need of brushing up, as regards distribution of food. We have a long journey before us, so probably get over it some day.
(13) A life on the Ocean Wave we arrived at Pinkenba at 11 o'clock took aboard 300 Troops belonging to the 9 15th Bn. We left again about 6P.M bound north. A pretty strong southerly wind blowing.
(14) Turned out a beautiful day. C.O. still struggling to get things in ship-shape order a very difficult task just at present. Distribution of goods still open for argument.
(15) Fine Weather. Vessel making rather slow progress owing no doubt to want of docking: Water supply on very poor food troubles still on .
(16) Weather still sublime. Very pretty scenery along Queensland coast. On duty as Sgt of Guard with Cpl 36 men from 8.30A.M. 16th to 8.30A.M. 17th Up till the present very little use for detention room. Not a bad performance.
(17) Beautiful day, the sea like a sheet of glass. Vessel struck a sand bank about 3 o'clock this morning, but freed herself apparently without damage. Food supply still a source of bother.
(18) "What Ho she bumps" Another sensation caused this morning at 3.45A.M. by our ship running on a Coral reef sticking hard fast. Very funny to see the nigger crew flying about like paper cats. Wireless calls sent out for assistance. H.M.T. Seang Choon returned to our aid but failed in her efforts to tow us off. Large number of sharks prowling round the ship waiting for someone to drop overboard for lunch. Troops with officers men turned to in watches to heave coal overboard to lighten ship forard.
(19) Still ashore. All hands still working hard on coral heaving. Seang Choon makes another attempt to tow us off but fails and to troops from the niggers owing to the coal dust about. Turned out very warm day.
(20) Still on reef. Seang Choon striving hard to tow us off at last succeeded about 10.30AM, loud cheers from the boys, (we were on the reef for 54 hours.) Seang Bee steamed for Thursday Island arrived at 4.P.M Anchored in Bay. Township looks very pretty with its cocoanut Palms Boys anxious to get ashore for a change. Just woke aboard this ship at last and have told us off to our life boats fire stations. It is evident someone wants sharpening up about these matters.
(21) Ship went alongside wharf this morning to be examined by Diver. General leave granted to all ships to go ashore untill 6.P.M Had a stroll round town punished a few bottles of cordials the day was very warm. A great number of Japanese people here. Pearl fishing appears to be the chief industry here. The boys made a raid on the cocoanut trees this afternoon.
(22) We left Thursday Island at 9.A.M. this morning for Ceylon. Several men missed the boat. Some of the boys up before the Major on charges of misbehaviour of the "birds" charged with making a ball of the provost were put in cells. Everything aboard seems a scramble from morn till night. Sea very calm.
(23) Coy Orderly Sgt to-day with Cpl Dawson as Odly Cpl. Court Marshall held one of the boys sentenced to 3 months imprisonment with hard labour dismissed from the service. Several cases of sickness the Hospital space already taxed. Doctors inspection this morning also innoculation. Weather very warm ocean . We have seen nothing of our escorts up till now.