(6) MarchC.O. Sgt to day. We are haveing splendid weather. Lecture on the care of Arms by Lieut Vine-Hall. Col-Sgt Parsons myself doing a little stokeing down below for exersize.
(7) usual Church parades held R.C at 9.30 C of E at 10.30 Pres 11, o'clock. Food Water supposed to be getting short judging by the quantity issued these last few days. Expected to arrive at Colombo tomorrow afternoon.
(8) Beautiful weather. Had a breakdown in Port Engine at 2.30 A.M this morning which reduced our speed to about 6 knots . Sighted Ceylon about 9.30P.M arrived at Colombo at 6.30. Seang Choon steamed in just ahead of us. A large number of vessels in Harbour here. Searchlight flashing across the harbour from the Forts all night.
(9) Great activity among the Troops this morning all hand expecting shore leave which was not granted much to the disgust of all. Seang Choon men ashore on route march. Sgt L-- escaped from escort went ashore. I was detailed by Major Roberts to go ashore with 4 men to apprehend him, he was brought aboard at 10.30 placed under close arrest. Had heavy fall of rain tonight.
(10) Fine day. Colombo looking its best. Coy Orderly Sgt to day. The men very dissatisfied at not getting shore leave made a demonstration before the Major this morning but gained nothing. Sgt Parsons myself were granted leave to make purchases for Coy ashore, also had a tour round Colombo. A very pretty interesting place. A great many of our boys took French leave got ashore which required a strong party to round up. The Major was bombarded with rotten spuds on leaving this ship this afternoon. About 300 men had to face the beak on charges of breaking from the ship. Fines inflicted ranging from 6 days pay to 14 days pay, pretty stiff when it stings the pocket. Took aboard a considerable amount of Food water also Coal. S.S. Choon sailed about 11P.M.
(11) We left Colombo just after midnight, several men missed the ship. Calm sea but very hot on board. Muster parade held this morning. Came in sight of the Maldive Islands about 10, o'clock off starboard.
(12) Fine day. Things on board getting anyhow again. Rifle drill this morning. Sgt Pestell myself at Orderly room this morning on Sgt L-- case. Lecture tonight on Military law by Major Roberts. Sgt Parsons the Ships 3rd Officer myself spent very pleasant evening playing cards.
(13) Another grand day. Sgt Jock Duncan had a bit of a hurry-up with Pte Williams got second, caused roars of laughter. Another lecture tonight by the Major very interesting.
(14) Coy Orderly Sgt to day, Tom Nelson O. Cpl. Usual Church Parades held. Afternoon spent reading loafing about. A very pretty sunset this evening. S.S. City of London passed us by on starboard side this afternoon. We came up level with the "Seang Bee" 
(15) Calm sea. Morning spent on rifle drill Physical stunts. Lecture by Lieut Vine-Hall this afternoon. Another tonight by Lieut Harrison on Advance Guards duty, very interesting. Boys getting tired of Sea.
(16) Splendid weather. 13th Bn Coy for duty. Sgt of Guard with Cpl Tom Nelson 45 men. detention room pretty full of boarders. Passed by large steamer going eats about 2P.M. lecture tonight by the Major.
(17) Changed Guard at 8.30 this morning. Orderly room this afternoon in connection with Sgt L's case, also present Sgts McKay Pestell. Sgt L put in irons for making threat towards the major. Proceedings very exciting. Major a bit puzzled.
(18) Passed by Aden about 5.30 A.M. this morning and passed by Perrim at 1,o'clock. We were escorted from here by the "Empress of Asia" which has been converted into an armed cruiser. Day spent at Rifle drill passed by several steamships going South. Lecture on Typography by the Major.
(19) Weather very warm. Wireless message received about the "Dresden" being sunk in the West Indies, the boys give 3 cheers for the Victors. Major gave another lecture on Typography tonight.