August 1st 1915Heavy fighting took place all night on our right the 11th 12th Battn of the 3rd Brigade having done good work capturing 2 lines of enemy trenches after stubborn resistance. Our casualties were about 125 killed wounded. A German aeroplane flew over our own position this afternoon but made off when 2 of our machine guns came on the scene. Turks started lively Machine gun and rifle fire after dark, but made no attack.
2nd Our Brigade stood to Arms at 3.30 A.M. this morning expecting an attack. The 6th Reinforcement from Egypt this morning and were posted to various Company,s. Received orders to be ready to move off at minutes notice, all the boys anxious for a bit of hurry-up. Turned out a very warm day and awfully dusty, with very small supply of water to quench ones thirst. Turks get noises in the head to night and fire wildly for about 20 minutes, doing very little damage.
3) A quiet night spent. Great preparations still being made by all hands for the expected advance. Water supply still very poor. Met Lieut Gould of the 4th Battn in "Shrapnell Gully" this afternoon, he was with our Company at Liverpool for a time. Great quantity of Ammunition and other stores including large tins of water which were brought from Egypt for the Troops. Also many new Troops. Turks send over a few shells from their 75 cm gun among our bivouacs but luckily no-one was hit. Great din along the whole front to night.
4) 4,000 Imperial Troops came ashore through the night, Turks put a few shells over to welcome them. German aeroplane came over our trenches this morning and dropped 4 bombs which fell with a deafening crash but no material damage. A "Monitor" shelled Turkish Field Bayteries on our right near "Krithia". Turks put several shells over our Bivouac this afternoon killing 2 New Zealanders and wounding one of the 13th. Brisk rifle fire at intervals throughout the night.
5) Stand to arms at 4 A.M. this morning. Making ready for the great offensive. More Imperial Troops came ashore last night. One Battln each from the Cheshire Regt and Worcester Regt. Spent the afternoon in making bags for Bomb carriers 4 men from each Coy in Bomb party. Turks getting very troublesome with their Artillery they put one of the New Zealand Batteries guns out of Action and killed 2 gunners this afternoon near "Walkers Ridge". They also sent a few over our "Bivouac' from their 75cm guns and send showers of stones and dit down on the boys Dug-outs.