July 1st Fairly quiet all night. A little sniping indulged in at Daylight. A great deal of damage done on the beach , several lighters wrecked by the Storm which passed over last night. Sgt Parsons myself paid a visit up to the 26th Indian Mountain Battery this afternoon, they are splendid fellows We had a par of good field glasses could see the Turkish supply columns coming from Maidos to "Achi-Baba". While we were in Gun emplacements a 15 pounder shell came tearing overhead burst quite near the N.Z. Battery but no harm was done, Parsons I thought it was about time to get under cover. We returned to our bivouac and had a meal of Biscuits Cheese a nice dixie of hot Tea, very moreish, but we have to make a little go a long way as water is so very scarce.
(2) Stand to Arms at 4 this morning, B. Company fell in at 7A.M marched out to number 3 outpost to work on big sap. One of the N. Zealanders shot by his own men in mistake for Turk early this morning, his mates were burying him when we went out. Heavy bombardment going on down at Cape Helles Achi-Baba. Our Howitzer Guns open a heavy fire on Turkish Positions in front of "Walkers ridge". Returned to bivouac at 3P.M the 15th Battn relieving us in the "Big Sap" this work continues day night the sap being about 9 feet deep 8 feet wide to allow mules laden with Ammunition to pass each other.
(3) Had a little rain through the night. Everything fairly quiet in Trenches to day. The usual amount of shells deposited on "Anzac" beach by Turk artillery, its very strange the enemy opens fire at regular intervals on our landing place. Of course we are getting quite used to it by now, one can hear the screech of the Shells as they pass overhead then there is a dash for cover of any description, but its hard to tell where they are going to burst. Several lighters Naval launches have been sunk at various dates. And very often men are killed wounded. It is a marvel there are not more hit as there are often large numbers working on the beach so on. The Dressing Station get their share of the shells that come alone and often get smacked while attending to the wounded.