Tuesday March 30th 1915Very warm day. We have been attached to A. Coy of the 13th Bn. C.O. Lieut-Colonel Burnage. Spent the afternoon at Platoon drill the lads shaped very well. Am Coy Orderly Sgt. to day. I met a couple of Tasmanians here to day, Dud Sergeant who is in the 1st Light Horse Johnny Williams who is the 15th Bn he served with me in South Africa.
(31) Physical drill Semaphore signalling on first parade this morning. Kit Inspection afterwards Bayonet exercises this afternoon. The lads made a demonstration before the O.C. this evening in reference to their pay which is certainly overdue, the usual bantering took place, also the same old promises, no satisfaction gained. Very warm day accompanied by dust storm.
April 1st13th Bn marched out to 3rd tower to bivouac. Reinforcements being put through the various drill movements, have already gained a good knowledge of the business.
(2) Usual Parades held. Had leave paid a visit to Cairo this evening just in time to witness the big dust up, and things were real lively. There must have been fully 4,000 men in the mix-up composed chiefly of our own lads, They took charge of one quarter of the City fairly ran amok, they smashed everything they could lay hands on, windows were bent with bricks, furniture pulled to pieces and thrown from places 4 storeys high, to be gathered up by those in the street to be piled up ignited, and what fires they were, also had petrol to help them on. Pubs were raided what couldnt be drunk was destroyed, in no time about 50 mounted Red Caps (Police) made a charge through the street firing their revolvers on the crowd. hitting several, then the mob went mad pulled several of their horses, others were knocked off being hit by bottles thrown at them. Then a company of infantry were marched down they were pelted the same. The box on lasted about 4 hours died down. The Dark Town Fire Brigade were brought up to put the fires out these were also chased out of the street, Order was restored when they brought a strong picquet in from the Mena Camp.
(3) Usual Parades held. All leave to Cairo stopped tonight. A bit of an argument stated in Heliopolis tonight but was soon stopped. Very little damage done.
(4) Easter Sunday. Usual Church Parades held. Received orders to be ready for marching off at 4A.M tomorrow morning for destination unknown. 50 men 3 N.C.O's Sgt Parsons myself Cpl McMillan were told off as an advance party for the 13th great arguments among the lads as to who should be the lucky ones to go.
(5) Easter Monday. Turned out at 3A.M. this morning and marched out of Camp for Cairo, it was a wild morning the wind blew very hard of course the sand played havoc with the lads eyes. After a tramp of 8 miles we arrived at the Railway Station about 7.30A.M. after a long wait we entrained for Alexandria arriving there about 3P.M. We were taken straight aboard O.A H.M.T. Osmanieh. Appears to be a large amount of shipping here.
(6) Beautiful morning. Great scramble after tucker this morning no arrangements made for our coming. The American Cruiser Tennessee is in Harbour here she is a fine vessel. There are a great number of French troops quartered here they look peculiar in their Blue great coat red pantaloons, some have the new grey uniform . We steamed out about 3P.M this afternoon had a merry time crossing the Mediterranean Sea., our ship tossed about a treat, at the same time being enveloped in a thick fog, many down with sea sickness. This vessel can go some, she steams 20 knots per hour which is going.