(20) Fine weather, nice cool breeze blowing. Feet inspection by O.C. also Rifle drill. Had the afternoon to ourselves. Lecture on Out-Post duties by the Major. Several N.C.O's Sgt Parsons myself invited to a farewell supper given by the 3rd Officer we all spent a splendid evening . Excellent menu, Finished up with Soldiers of the Queen God save the King, assisted by the Gramophone.
(21) Fine day, fresh breeze blowing. Coy Orderly Sgt to day. Usual Church Parades held. The Major took for his lesson The Crossing of the Red Sea by the Israelites. Passed by several large steamships.
(22) Heard we were to arrive at Suez tonight, close into the coast, great activity amongst the Troops all hands getting their kit ready for disembarkation, many fellows finding other blokes things before they are lost. Passed by the S.S. Chilka S.S. Soldier Prince, carrying Indian troops going South. We arrived at Suez at 6.30P.M anchored out in the stream all night. Beautiful scene this evening at sunset, the hills presented almost as many colours as the rainbow.
(23) Beautiful weather. Orders to get ready for disembarkation. Coy Orderly Sgt to day, plenty of running about ships etc. We entrained at 8.30P.M travelling all night in a very slow train, and very cold.
(24) Arrived at "Helmuk Station" this morning at 4.30 A.M. marched out about 3 miles to our camp near "Abbasia" Great number of troops camped here. We pitched our camp about 3P.M got under cover as we all needed a blow. Had to get our tea the best way we could, some of the lads beginning to wish they were home again, popped into bunk early had a good sleep.
(25) Fine day things trifle mixed at present. Started on our new menu of Beef Biscuit. There are a great many troops around here, British Troops, Egyptian Lancers Camel Corp. Paid a visit to the Lancashire Fusilers Barracks this afternoon. They are a fine crowd of men can drill some.
(26) Coy Orderly Sgt. We had a march out across the Desert this morning. Rifle drill this afternoon, we get a good view of the Pyrimids from here. P aid a visit to "Heliopolis" (City of the Sun) this evening, very pretty place some fine Buildings, especially the Palace Hotel.
(27) Went through our usual parades to day. Had leave to visit the City of Cairo, had a good tour round, there are people of all nations here especially French, there are some fine buildings but the City generally is rotten, it fairly hums, they dont have any sanitary arrangements at all. There does not appear to be any rule of the road. Donkeys, Camels Garrys, Horses etc seem to go where they wish, Of course as one can expect the City is crowded with Soldiers, who the Egyptians profess to like, no doubt on account of their spending powers.
(28) Sand storm passed over camp this morning making things very uncomfortable. Very had job trying to keep rifles clean on account of the sand. Usual Church Parades held. Swarm of locusts passed over camp this morning. Had the afternoon to ourselves. Received order to be ready for joining our Battns at any hour which are camped at "Bernaiul". Our food supplies are not being managed as they should be. Paid a visit to Heliopolis.
(29) Turned out at 5A.M. struck Camp, packed our bags ready for moving off. After the usual waste of time we set off to Aerodrome arrived just in time for dinner. Had to fall in again in full marching order for the general inspection by General Sir Ian Hamilton. Something like 25,000 men on parade, they stirred the dust up a treat on the march past both horses men one could hardly discern the company in front the dust was so thick at times. Finished up the day by pitching our camp in the Battn lines resting which we all needed.
More to follow -