May 24th Empire Day.The whole of the 4th Division comprising the 4th, 12th, and 13th Brigade,s of infantry, together with engineers, Pioneers, and other details take part in night operations.
25 Final stage of operations, which terminated at daybreak this morning, when our force (Blue) attacked position on Suez Canal held by force (Brown) General Cox passes favourable comments on tactics. 45th Bn specially noted.
26 Preparations for our departure carried on with all haste. I was granted leave of absence this morning and spent the day at Ismalia about 10 miles from Serepeum. A pretty little town with Palm and other trees growing either side of the streets, making things cool after the glaring Sunshine. While haveingmy midday meal in a cafe, I got into conversation with a Greek chap who spoke excellent English, he turned out to be a fireman who was on the Seang-Bee which brought us from Australia. We had a good old yarn about events which happen aboard ship so on.
28 Church Parades held as usual. Turned out a very warm day. Lt Col Herring rejoined us this afternoon was given a grand reception from the boys. He was wearing the red ribbon of the French decoration which had been awarded him for his services on Gallipoli. Sgt Blenkinsop myself had a few minutes conversation with him he showed us both the decoration which is prettily designed, it is called, Chevalier de Croix.
29 The whole of the 4th Division were inspected this afternoon by General Murray, Commander in chief of the forces in Egypt. Also General Cox our Divisional Commander, the march past was not the best by any means, it was rather difficult to keep any line as there was such a thick dust about caused by such a large number of men horses. However they gave us the same old "Pretty Cocky" said it was fine.
30 The boys marched across "Serepeum" this morning with all clothing to be fumigated before leaving Egypt. Q.M. Sgt myself went for a dip in the Canal this evening, splendid after the heat of the day.
31 All hands very busy to day getting ready for marching out to morrow, the Quarter-Master rushed from all sides by the boys, one bloke wants a chin strap, another a pull through, someone else a field dressing and so on, a great joke. We handed in all Sun Helmets, and have had new Australian felts issued to us, we look brand new again. The 4th Bde marched out of Camp this afternoon for Serepeum Station we lined the roadway and gave some rousing cheers for the old 13th Bn as they marched by.
1st June All on the move early this morning. A.B.C. and portion of D Coys 45th Bn march out this morning for "Serepeum" the remainder of our Coy, myself included remains behind to strike Camp the boys had a fair amount of work to do but after the usual growl set to work finished in good style. We marched out at about 6.30P.M. left "Serepeum" at 9P.M for "Alexandria"
2 Arrived in "Alexandria" about 8 oclock this morning went on board the Troopship "Kinfauns Castle". There are about 2,500 troops aboard, including Div Bde Head Quarters Staff (Generals Cox Hafuard.) A great many Troopships anchored in Port, including the S.S. Caledonia the vessel I went from "Lemnos" to Gibralter in. We anchored out in the Bay all night.