April 1st 1917. Sunday. Paid a visit to village of "Grevillers" about 1 miles from "Bapuame" this morning, went through the big German Cemetary several bodies lying about, being blown out by our Shells in the advance. The Huns carried out their usual work of destruction before leaving. There were several large dug-outs and subterranean passages running right through the village. Most of the big trees that adorned the village have been chopped down.
(2) Heavy frost this morning. 45th Bn marched out from Le Barque at 10A.M. this morning and passed through Bapuame" to a Camp on the Eastern side of the town. "Bapuame" itself a fairly large Town, but at present like all other French towns in the War zone that the Hun has been forced to evacuate reduced to a heap of ruins. A few shells fell around the Town this evening from enemy long range guns. Snow falling again to night.
(3) Snow fairly thick on the ground this morning. Paid a visit to "Bapuame" this afternoon and had a peep at the spot where the Town Hall once stood, but was blown up when the enemy evacuated. Took a stroll into the village of "Fravriuel" this evening and met several of the old 13th Bn. Enemy Aeroplane came over and shot down 2 of our Observation Balloons, both burst into flames, the observers jumped from the cage and came to earth by "Parachute. The enemy plane flying very low then made off, followed by shells from our Anti-aircraft guns and bullets from all directions. It was a very smart and daring piece of work on the enemy airmans part, But he was shot down before going very far.
(4) Rain fell all last night making the ground in a very bad state again.
(5) Turned out a beautiful day. Cpl Kingell and myself had a tour around "Bapuame" and district this afternoon, many very interesting places to visit such as some of the old Fortifications erected in Napoleons time etc etc.
(6) Good Friday. Turned out another beautiful day. Great Aerial activity this morning. Heavy Bombardment going on towards "Arras" Another batch of reinforcements joined this afternoon. Rain fell again to night.
(7) Took a run into village of "Fravruiel" this morning. Enemy Artillery put a few shells into "Bapuame this evening from their long range guns, Our O.C. Capt Jack Holman was badly wounded in the right arm. Lieut Davis now acting O.C.