29th) Stand to arms at 5 A.M. this morning. Turkish Artillery send a few shells among the 16th 17th Battln at "Herring Post" about breakfast time, killing one man and wounding 6 others. German aeroplane came over our trenches at midday and dropped 3 Bombs which all fell outside our lines. 2 Coys of New Zealanders and the 10th Light Horse made an attack on the Turk trenches on our left and drove them from their first line after a hard scrap, they had plenty of Bomb fighting at close quarters, both sides suffered many casualties.
30th) Stand to arms at 4A.M. this morning. Usual sniping indulged in at day-break, I was holding a periscope up trying to find the exact position of a sniper who had been very troublesome to us the last few mornings. Had the periscope up only a few seconds when "crash, a bullet went clean through, smashing the mirror, which rattled down the tube and peppered my face, they are fine shots without a doubt. Giving instructions on Bomb Throwing and Fuse timing to throwers of A.B.C. D. Coys after breakfast Turk artillery again busy shelling "Herring Post at midday Our Aeroplanes trying to locate position of enemy guns which are apparently well concealed.
31st) Stand to arms again at 3 this morning but nothing sensational takes place. 8 men and myself of the 13th Battln journeyed to "Anzac Bomb Factory for instruction in new Bombs recently arrived from England. We made most of the trip and had a good swim while on the beach. Had just reached the entrance of the big Sap on our way back when a shell from Turk Artillery dropped among a stack of Tinned meat (Boxes) which was scattered in all directions, one man was killed, having the side of his head smashed with a piece of shell. Got back again to our lines about 5 oclock, the 13th were relieved by the Essex Regt to night and we moved off towards Flat-Top near "Suri-Bahr, most of us got into our new position about 10 o,clock, but one of our Companys got bushed and never arrived untill 2 in the morning.