August 2nd Very heavy dew fell through the night making everything more uncomfortable for the boys, whose clothing was already wet with perspiration from the march of yesterday. Cpl Parke and myself took a stroll into "Albert" this afternoon to see some of the ruins caused by the Germans. It is a fair sized place has had many fine buildings, of course they are now a heap of bricks and mortor. The "Basillic" (Cathedral) has been a beautiful Gothic building, but is riddled with shell holes. On the dome of the tower there is a splendid figure of the Virgin Mary holding our Saviour (when a baby) up over her head, The figure must stand about 12 feet high, and is made of metle. Well, this has also been hit, but strange to say, remains hanging among the debris, about 250 feet above the ground. Another terrific bombardment opened up by our artillery about 8 oclock to night and kept up till 3 next morning.
(3) German guns again shell "Albert" this morning, several hit the "Basillic" but the figures still remain in same position. We are expecting to be put into the firing line any moment now. Another artillery duel started again this evening, great clouds of earth are sent high into the sir when our big shells burst. The Germans also shell our trenches heavily, the fields are a mass of mine craters. About 10 o,clock tonight a great bombardment started and the earth fairly trembled. There was a din hundreds of big guns in action at the same time. A great sight bursting shells flares what not. Guess the Huns were getting it some. This morning had a bomb accident in the lines, 4 horses killed and 4 men hit, and another this afternoon Lieut Meggit of C. Coy while toying with a German bomb. Another bombardment to night which lasted a couple of hours, a few enemy shells burst close to our Bivouac. Somebody got noises in the head to night and sounded the Gas Alarm, great scramble. We heard that the 7th Brigade had successfully carried enemy trench to night.
(4) A batch of about 200 German prisoners were marched in this morning having been captured in the scrap with our boys, they look a pretty healthy lot and not half starved as some of the papers are fond of saying. Many of then appear to be pleased to be finished with the war.