12) Artillery still booming, must have been tons of iron hurled about these last few days. 2 Battln of the 6th Bgde of Australians came up near our position this afternoon looking in splendid nick, haveing just arrived from Egypt. Hope it is not long before we are looking feeling as well as them again. Had another journey down to "Anzac" this afternoon for instruction in new Bombs that have recently arrived from England, took me all my time to crawl down back again as I am feeling dead weak, have been suffering with Dysentery these last few days.
13) Everything quiet all night. Early this morning the 27 28th Battln came and releived us. Thank God we are off for a spell at last. The remnants of the old 4th Bgde left "Durrants Post" about 6 o,clock for "Anzac Cove" and after going at a snails pace reached there at 11P.M and stretched out on the beach for a couple of hours sleep.
14) Just before daylight we went off in lighters to S.S. Abbassia and left "Anzac" for Lemnos Island arriving there about 10 this morning. I never thought it would be my good fortune to see Lemnos again, However here we are. We came ashore at midday made our way out to the rest camp they had "partly" established for us. There was an abundance of good food, but I was to washed out to go it (Something wrong as I am pretty good on the tooth.)
15) There was great shortage of tents for the number of men that came so many had to sleep out, your humble included, Just before daylight a storm came on rain fell in torrents and it was not long before everything was wet through, water poured down the slopes a treat. At daylight there was a sight. Those that slept out doing a shiver wet through, of course we were fixed up through the day for better accommodation etc. I felt that bloomin weak sick of things it could have rained for ever, I am right off food.
16) I had to throw the towel in this morning I couldnt stick it any longer. Dr McGlouchlin had me taken to 3rd A.G.H. On arrival I had a fine bath was put into a beautifull clean warm bed lay like a log. We have Australian nurses here who do everything to make us comfortable, also the orderlies are very attentive. After haveing some beef tea I went off to Slumber land could have slept for a week. Well I guess I am here for a few days to come.