16 About 1.30A.M. this morning there was a terrific bombardment over "Ypres" way, and again at daybreak. We heard the "Canadians' had done good work through the night. It turned out a fine day. Several Aeroplanes up observing to day, some at a great height. Another Bombardment commenced about 11 o,clock to night at "Ypres"
17 Things got very lively first thing this morning., 5 Taube,s came over British lines at a great height, and were fired on by our Anti-aircraft guns, of which there are a great many round about here. The air was filled with bursting shells but none appears to have done any damage to the enemy planes. Another came over towards Bailleul about 11 o,clock but was driven back.
18 Beautiful day, usual parades held. 2 of our aeroplanes were fired at this afternoon, a regular hail of shells being fired at them, but both returned safe.
19 45th 48th Bn,s inspected by Lieut. General Plumer this afternoon, the boys looked very smart on Parade. Of course we got the usual "Pretty Cocky".
20 The whole Brigade were put through a gas attack this morning, (Mild of course) to test new Gas Helmets. They also used some other "tack" for injuring the eyes (Tear Shells) they stung some I can assure you, guess when all these infernal devices are played out, they will start pelting stones at each other or pulling faces so on
22) 12th Brigade inspected by Commander-in-Chief of British forces in Flanders, General Sir Douglas Haig, also our General Birdwood staff. The C.I.C spoke to a good many of the boys about their past experiences on Gallipoli. The "Soul of Anzac" looked better than ever, the boys all sang, no one like "Birdie". The march past was very good indeed, but would have been much better if the band had been there, we had 2 side drums to go on with.
24 D. Coy marched to "Ootersteene" this afternoon for bathing parade which was very nice indeed. Warm water showers to be sure. Our Anti-aircraft guns brought down a Taube this evening. Received a letter from Home sweet home.
28 1 Officer 3 N.C.O,s myself included attended school for Bayonet Instruction at "Outersteene" under instruction of Sgt-Mjr Barrett of the Coldstream Guards, very interesting indeed, we are to attend for 1 week.
30 Heard an account of the German attack on the 20th Bn a few days ago, several of our new Stokes guns were lost, also a large number of casualties.
1st July A great sight this afternoon when about 20 of our Aeroplanes went up and flew over the German lines dropping Bombs. We heard later they did great damage.
2 A beautiful day, plenty of Sunshine. A great Bombardment started about 7 o,clock to night and kept pounding away for 3 hours at the enemy trenches, a great din, the ground fairly shook. We received orders to move off about 3P.m and marched to "Outerstiene place of Rondezvou, and then a 9 mile march to "Sailly" where we billeted for the night. The German artillery have played havoc with the buildings especially the Eglise (Church). One can see barb wire trenches on all sides, also Soldiers graves by the score. One of our Aeroplanes was shot down this afternoon from a great height.