New Years Eve.Mr Lauder Alex Allen myself set out from home about 10P.M to see the gathering of Scots at the Iron Church in North Bridge what a sight babble, there were thousands of Burgoo eaters waiting for the midnight hour to strike when it did blow in there was some Highland yells songs., dancing singing whiskey boozing I can tell you. Mr Lauder tells me it is very quiet here this year on account of the War, it must be real lively when the war is off. Well we returned home had a splendid supper laid out we sat down gave it nothing.
Mr Luke an elder from the church, also Mr Sinclair were present we spent a couple of hours yearning so forth, after wishing each other the best of luck good fortune singing "Auld lang Syne" Wishing success to our Army Navy so on, also wishing that I am spared to be home with my loved ones by next "Hogmaney" It is a great time among the Scotch folk, we retired to bed about 4 in the morning.
Jan 4thReported to headquarters at Horseferry road this afternoon. I came back by the East Coast Railway through Newcastle York. About 30 of our lads myself included left London for our base in Weymouth on the South Coast about 5P.M arrived there at 10P.M marched out to camp which is situated about 2 miles form the town. I met some of the old 13th here.
Jan 5Medical Parade this morning passed fit as a fiddle so on. Haveing stormy weather around these parts. They have large Huts erected here to accomadate the Troops, of whom there must be 3,000 all waiting to be drafted away to Egypt. And there is another Camp at Westham were the unfit for further service are camped they are also waiting for a boat to Australia. Daily routine, Parade at 9A.M. go for a light march along Chickerill Road back, sometimes they march to Weymouth so on, Duties are very light, we get a guard at intervals, it is just a matter of eat, drink sleep a bloke can snore these cold nights.
12 Jan. Issued with new equipment, looks like business again
13 Another of our lads taken out of the Harbour drowned, this makes the fourth since I have been in Weymouth, they say their is foul work being done, The local Regt of Dorsets our boys often mix it.
Tues 25 Inspection of Troops Camp by Mjr General Johnson who is in command of Weymouth Military District.
(26) Australia day a fine day as regards the weather. Our boys to the number of 2000 or more, were marched into Weymouth given a concert in the Jubilee Hall. It was a great turn out.
27) All hands down at the rifle range this morning doing a little shooting, just to get their hand eye in.