No. 3598 8th R. 
At Sea January 1916
My Dear Mother
We may reach our journeys end now in a few days but we do not know our destination yet, we have been very fortunate, the weather has been perfect, and ever since we left Freemantle the sea has been calm. I was hoping that we would have a little rough weather to make things lively, but so far we have struck none. I suppose you read in the papers, of our doings in Perth, well I hope if you did that the N.S.W. papers, gave a truer account than the Perth Rag did, the account they published put all the blame on to the Disorderly soldiers from N.S.W. and stated that none of the local lads participated, in the window smashing, or, looting Well the second window smashed was broken by a soldier who had returned from the front wounded, our boys then started, and they were Reinforced by civilians, and I saw Girls amongst the crowd picking up metal and 
throwing our boys were blamed for breaking a window that was smashed before they ever saw Perth and that made some join in that would not have done so. We received a fine welcome when we arrived, we marched off the boat and after waiting a few minutes on the wharf for the train to arrive we entrained, and were taken straight out to one of the W.A. camps "Black Boys Camp", it is a lovely place we were assigned to our huts and told that no one was to leave, then cooks were called for, to prepare dinner for us, this was our welcome. the cooking arrangements will not stand pulling to pieces, our Officers were treated just the same as we were, there was a train leaving about 1 P.M. and when that train left, there were very few N.S.W. men left at Black Boys Some of them did not come back to camp untill the evening before the Boat was due to leave .. then they simply secured their Kit bags and left for Freemantle
 
The Following is the name of one of my mates a very steady decent chap before he enlisted an athlete runner etc. down near Sydney to a member of the Botany Harriers club. W. Simmons No. 3.6.17. same Batt etc as myself