The hostess decided that she would show William round a bit, so out they went through the garden as they worked their way round towards the back of the grounds they came on a party of girls playing cricket and the Lady explained that all her girls played cricket, and inquired if Bill like the game. he said he did, and next thing found himself numbered as one of the Team and his Troubles were quite at an end while I'm on the subject he asked me one day to ask you to remember him to Dick Coombes ? says that you are bound to know Dick, who is at the Office. I fancy that the letters that are missing are addressed to Horseferry Rd always put Batn and Coy on. Last time that I was away letters came to the Coy. and I received them on the day that I rejoined, the same thing occurred in March and strange to say on each occasion, one of the Letters was from Sister H. who looked after me at Stoke. No doubt the news that you heard Re fritzs Crab walk was in a measure correct but he didnt run far at Bul. court. when he was retiring before Easter he had time to lift the Rly and cut down all the fruit trees and bust the villages up generally with high explosive. hes a beauty alltogether. The Huns of Attila, and that crowd, are right out of the running now. Now Ive given you most of the news that the other letter contained, and I think pretty well all there is if you can get a war map look at the top end "did you ever see a piece called "Canadian Remounts" I thought it rather good. ` They offered a prize for a piece written in the same style.. "In connection with the A.I.F. horses we're not far off the "spot". It runs thus,
Broncho Dams they rany by, on the ranges of the, Praries
Heard the chicken drumming in the scented Sasketoon,
Saw the jewelled humming birds the flocks of wild canaries,
Heard the coyote dirging to the ruddy northern moon
Wooly foals leggy foals foals that romped and wrestled.
Rolled in beds of golden red and charged to mimic fights
Saw the frosty bear wink out and comfortably nestled,
Close beside their vixen dams beneath the Wizard lights.
Far from home, and over seas, older now and wiser,
Branded with the arrow brand, broke to trace and bit.
Tugging up the grey guns, to strafe the blooming Kaiser,
up the hill to "Kemmel", when the mauser bullets spit
Stiffened with the cold rains, mired and tired, and Gory
Plunging through the mud holes as the battery's advance
far from home and over seas, but Battling on to Glory
With the English 18 pounders and the 75s of France is so Quinze
Could not find the cutting have mislaid it. C.
Perhaps it was because I have always been interested in the Mokes that that piece caught my eye. It was written by a canadian Soldier I believe. Now I must ring off with heaps of love to all at home, from your Loving Bro. Chas. G.