In one of your letters you spoke of the state of things at home .. I refer to the Referendum and other matters of which you spoke. Well I dont think Aussie was the only place where Politicians wanted combing out, and their methods of Government Inquired into, at the time you wrote Blighty Politicians were in a pretty mess I was talking to Mr H. one might about our own Politicians, and comparing their old Platform with the Blighty Politicians Idea of Law making and Govnt generally. Mr. H. seemed to consider our Politicians methods, a bit cleaner and far more sensible than the methods and Ideas of British Politicians he has absolutely no time for the present day Politician, and considers them to be parasites of the worst class. He does not believe in Democracy in many ways, first he says that unless the people are educated up to certain standards that they will not be able to understand, or to thoroughly appreciate all the advantages, that it brings, and that in the finish they will abuse it and in fact it will be their downfall. You would understand his arguments better, if you could meet him, Judging from the Home news that we read now and then in the papers, and from what your letters brough along I guess he is nearly right, our Democratic Govt's have not been such a howling success. One big mistake that has been made for years past is this, Politicians have been sent to England, they return home with a certain amount of fresh Knowledge Re the Govt of a Country acquired at Banquets, Shooting parties etc, and they proceed to unload it, for our benefit, England is the last place on earth that Politicians should go to if they want to learn. America, France, Germany any of them Bar Blighty, for though we have read for Years Past of British Justice = and what Britain has done for other nations, we have not read of British Injustice, and of what she has done for other nations and why she did it, - Take India. Britain saved India its true, taught a Race of heathen what their country was worth, how to use it, to the best advantage, and then set to work to educate them, to Train their soldiers, to Keep Law and order. It was a good Idea, "Britain the Saviour of India = India the Rich hunting ground, for British Sharks, The dumping ground for cheap and shoddy goods, it was a truly great idea for Britain, In this war, it is England fighting to right the wrongs of Belgian, if Belgian was the only consideration things might be different, for my part they could, for so far I have not met a Belgian that I liked any better than a Hun, in fact I would just as soon trust a Hun any day, and the class of Belgian Refugee that one bumps against over in Blighty, does not help to Improve ones opinion, any country where money is to be made is good enough for them, and they dont make