
Condensed History of the 5th Australian Pioneer Battalion, A.I.F.March 3rd 1916 - May 15th 1919
H G Carter"Westover"Shirley RdRoseville
5th Pioneer BattalionI  EgyptLike most other units of the 5th Division, the 5th Pioneer Battalion was formed at Tel-el-Kebir Egypt the actual date of the formation being Mar 3rd 1916. The early administration was under the Australian Provisional Formations commanded by Maj General Sir H.V. Cox. Three Coys & H.Q. were first of all formed each brigade of the division sending officers & men sufficient for one company; The 8th Brigade party formed A Coy under Major (then Lt) Morrison. The 14th Bde B Coy under Major Peters & the 15th Bde C Coy under Capt Dwyer. Lt Col (then Major) Carter was appointed to Command.After preliminary training constructing a rifle range & some preliminary training the battalion moved by march route to Ferry Post on the Eastern side of the Suez Canal where it became a unit of the 5th Aust Divn.The march occupied 3 days halts being made at Mahsama & Ismailia & was most successfully carried out.  At Ferry Post the 4th (D) Coy was formed from reinforcements received with Lt McVicer-Smyth in command.  The Battalion was then up to full strength & contained about 100 men who had seen "Gallipoli" service.  In addition over 50&cent; of the men were qualified tradesman of some kind.
Capt (then Lt) Helsham was appointed Adjutant & Major (then Lt) Wilkinson took command of 'B' Coy with Major Peters as Battalion 2nd in Command. After a few weeks solid training the Battalion repaired 4 miles of Desert Railway constructed a large portion of the main Canal defences.  The weather at this time was particularly trying, the heat being not only severe (119F) in the shade for three or four hours daily but the wind & dust added to the troubles.  Work & training was carried out in the early morning & late evening only.  It was a great relief therefore when orders were received for entrainment & embarkation for France. The battalion was entrained in open trucks on the evening of June 18th & embarked the following morning at Alexandria on the "Canada"
