confessional boxes at the back of the building were also finely carved, and of the same material.
We sat there for about three quarters of an hour, and were then informed that Brigade had no given the Padre notice, so there would be no service.
After a little enquiry and persuasion, one of the Monks sent out and, with a Machine Gun Officer, were successful in obtaining a pass for us to go through the building. Through a small doorway, which one has to stoop to enter, we pass into the Basilica of the Nativity. This is an enormous enclosure. Forty four immense marble pillars, with the remains of old paintings on their smooth surfaces, now almost obliterated, extend the length of the building, eleven in a row. The roof is very lofty, but the bare rough wood of the rafters looks very unsightly. These were formerly covered with lead, provided by, and placed there in the time of Edward IV of England, but the Turks have stripped it of all this lead for war purposes, and the roof now lets in the water copiously. Much of the lead, doubtless, many of our boys stopped. The place has been the scene of much disgraceful rivalry between the various sects, Armenian, Greek and Latin. In some cases this enmity has gone as far as the shedding of blood, and this in a place sacred to the birthplace of, and dedicated to, the Prince of Peace. Truly, so-called religious feeling finds strange expression sometimes.
At the far end of the Aisle, an extremely ugly wall has been erected, the work, I believe, of the Greeks in 1842, and due to the same jealous spirit which seems to have prevailed so long here. Passing through this wall by a doorway, one stands in front of the Greek altar, a very tawdry affair, and on the left on a raised platform the High Altar, also Greek property, and on the extreme left the portion which is owned by the Armenians, with their altar. From there we go through a small doorway, ornamented with beautiful marble work, somewhat darkened and spoiled by a fire which took place in the 18th Century as a result of one the religious feuds. Beautiful bronze doors close these entrances. A descent of a number of steps, and we stand in front of the Altar marking the place where the Saviour was born, and from whence