of Light Horsemen in my pictures for historic records; and though they did not actually take part in the capture, it was undoubtedly due to their speedy advance in the direction of Jaffa and their threat to outflank the enemy, which greatly facilitated the fall of Jerusalem into our hands: furthermore, pictures of Jerusalem are of no military or public Interest unless some of our troops are included.
19 Jany
Spent day at Desert Corps (Dieran) developing and bringing my work up to date.
20th Jany. Sunday
To Richon a delightful Jewish village six miles from here. I met the staff of the Anzac Mounted Division and took a series of photogs of their attached mountain battery and signallers.
21st Jany
Left Dieran at 7 am with Capt Rhodes in a Ford for Jerusalem, my two men following in a Box Car with equipage. With a beautiful morning favouring, we had a fine though bumpy run to Latron which is at the foot of the hills. The plain abruptly terminates, and we began the ascent of the foothills along a passably good road which bend and winds amongst the steep inclines of Judaea. The scenery is very fine. As one passes along, ever upward, through the narrow gorges of limestone there are transcending glimpses into deep valleys, blue grey with weathered limestone, and cultivated here and there, wherever there is sufficient soil, with gnarled old olive trees. And close inspection shows the mountain slopes to be


ablossom with, Narcissus, Anemones, and the beautiful little cyclamen. I got out of the car to pick some, and as my footsteps crushed down the stunted verdure, it gave out the sweetest perfume which I recognised as that of the aromatic herbs, of thyme and sage. Rhodes I found a fine companion and we enjoyed ourselves discussing the scenery and likening it to certain parts of home. Half way up the pass we met Lieut Hardy (in charge of the 20 men I had asked for) with his troop and limbers. I took a series of pictures, and was fortunate in being able to include a party of Turk prisoners on their way to the internment camp. As we neared the first summit, a short halt was made to enjoy the magnificent panorama 


which opened up. Looking back westward over the great round waves of limestone - which characterise these hills - one could see over 25 miles of plains, to Jaffa in the distance, and the sea beyond! And yet so clear was the atmosphere, that one might discern details and be deluded into numbering the distance at 10 miles. 
On the Eastern slopes immediately below us, began a series of sharp hairpin bend descents, which led into the valley. Immediately in front perched on a hill crest lay Kulonish near where the Turks destroyed the fine bridge over the Wady Surar when they retired on Jerusalem. Again up a gradual incline which follows the trend of the main ridge, we passed the village of Lifta, with its square stone 


buildings that looked like a series of blockhouses. Only a mile away on the hill top lay Jerusalem. Every inch of the ground was interesting with some biblical association and I sincerely regretted my lack of testamental Enlightenment. Still I doubt if I would have appreciated it the more. The entry into Jerusalem is as disappointing as entering a Mansion by the scullery door. The way is through modern buildings, and a densely peopled thoroughfare, dusty and commonplace, that quite disappointed me. 
It is necessary to secure passes to enter the old City, which we experienced no troubles in doing and forthwith we decided to lunch and inspect. Foodstuffs are scarce in Jerusalem and the hotel being filled, Rhodes and I 


were compelled to eat at a near-by Cafe of unprepossessing appearance. Neither did the meal belle the external aspect of this apartment. The meal consisted of meat and carrots - no doubt deceased camel (probably diseased)
was responsible for the toughness of the former, but we were hungry and did neither care nor inquire. The sweets course was simply figs. Figs boiled until the syrup was semi liquid, which course needed a good washing down with Jerusalem wine to scour away the taste. Into the cleanliness of the establishment we did not peer too closely, but the appearance of the proprietor who came out to collect the Tariff nearly made us violently ill.



 Expenses incurred Transport of Equipment to P O Coy Port Said from London 1-9-3
Transport Expenses from ship and through Customs 15 Jn 2-7-6
Paid out of pocket.